AS NOTED
SHEET NUMBER:
OF
PROJECT TITLE:
REVISIONS:
SHEET DESCRIPTION:
SCALE:
DATE:
CODE
REQUIREMENTS
& GENERAL
SPECIFICATIONS
THESE PLANS ARE CONSIDERED PERLIMINARY AND NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION UNLESS THESE PLANS BEAR THE WET OR DIGITAL SIGNATURE OF JAMES GEORGE.  ALONG WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S REVIEW SEAL OF APPROVAL AND WET SIGNATURE.
PROJECT DESIGNER
JAMES GEORGE
PLANS PREPARED BY:
7-10-2022
W/ 22 SHEETS TOTAL
CELL: 707 580-6704
FAX 707 438-0377
DESIGNS
DESIGNS
JAMES GEORGE
JAMES GEORGE
INC
INC
OFF: 707 425- 4156
30 LEMON HILL TRAIL
JAMESGEORGEDESIGNS.COM
E-MAIL : j ame s @j ame s ge or ge de s igns . c om
NAPA, CALIF, 94558
JAMES GEORGE DESIGNS INC.  IS A DIVISION  OF A&J CONSULTING SERVICES INC.
F O R : M E L I S S A B E R I K E R
2 0 0 6 W E B B E R A V E
VOUNTVILLE, CA. 94599
APN # 036-053-009
DWELLING ADDITION PLANS
AS2
09100 GYPSUM BOARD AND PLASTER [SHEET ROCK]:
1. Nothing in the Drawings or these Specif ications shall be construed as permitting work, which is contrary to
code requirements.  Recommended specif ications for the Application and Finishing of Gypsum Board published by
the gypsum association latest addition.
2. MATERIAL REFERENCE STANDARDS:  Accessories for gypsum board shall comply with ASTM C 1047,
Adhesives for f astening gypsum board shall comply with ASTM C 557, Gypsum ceiling board shall comply
with ASTM C 1395, Gypsum sheathing shall comply with ASTM C 79, Gypsum wall board shall comply
with ASTM C 36, Nails for Gypsum boards shall comply with ASTM C 514, F547, F1667, Steel screws for
Gypsum boards shall comply with ASTM C 954; C1002, Water resistant gypsum backing board ASTM C
630, Gypsum plaster shall comply with ASTM C 842.
3. WOOD FURRING STRIPS: Wood f urring strips for ceilings f astened to f loor or 
ceiling joists shall be
nailed at each bearing with two common wire nails, one of which shall be a slant nail and the other a f ace nail, or
by one nail having spirally 
grooved or annular grooved shanks approved by the enf orcement agency for this 
purpose.  All stripping nails shall penetrate not less than 1 3/4” into the 
member receiving the point.  Holes in
stripping at joints shall be sub drilled to 
prevent splitting.
These notes are the copy write property of James George and shall not be copied or located on any set of plans
that does not bear the title block of James George Designs or George construction and design. If these notes are
f ound to be copied or located in any area other than that labeled above please notif y James George @ [707]
580-6704
4. GYPSUM CONSTRUCTION:
A. LIMITATIONS: Gypsum wallboard or gypsum plaster shall not be used in any exterior surf ace where such
gypsum construction will be exposed directly to the weather. Gypsum wallboard shall not be used where
there will be direct exposure to water or continuous high humidity conditions.  Gypsum sheathing shall be
installed on exterior surf ace in accordance with ASTM C 1280.
a. WEATHER PROTECTION:  Gypsum wallboard gypsum lath or gypsum plaster shall not be
installed until weather protection for the installation is provided.
B. SINGLE PLY APPLICATION: Edges and ends of gypsum board shall occur on the f raming members,
except those edges and ends that are perpendicular to the f raming members.
C. JOINT TREATMENT: Gypsum board f ire-resistance rated assemblies shall have joint and f asteners
treated.
D. HORIZONTAL GYPSUM BOARD DIAPHRAGM CEILING:
b. INSTALLATION: Gypsum board used in a horizontal diaphragm ceiling shall be installed
perpendicular to ceiling f raming members. End joints of adjacent course of gypsum board shall not
occur on the same joist.
c. BLOCKING OF PERIMETER EDGES: All perimeter edges shall be blocked using a wood member
not less than 2 inch by 6 inch nominal dimension. Blocking material shall be installed flat over the
top plate of the wall to provide a nailing surf ace not less than 2 inches in width for the attachment
of the gypsum board.
d. FASTENERS: Fasteners used for the attachment of gypsum board to a horizontal diaphragm ceiling
shall be spaced not more than 7 inches on center (O.C.) at all supports, including perimeter
blocking, and not more than 3/8 inch from the edges and ends of the gypsum board.
5. GYPSUM BOARD IN SHOWERS AND WATER CLOSETS:
A. BASE FOR TILE: Cement, f iber-cement or glass mat gypsum backers in compliance with ASTM C
1396, C 1178 or C 1278 and installed in accordance with manuf acturer recommendations shall be
used as a base for wall tile in tub and shower areas and wall and ceiling panels in shower areas,
Water resistant gypsum backing board shall be used as a base for tile in water closet compartment
walls when installed in accordance with GA 216 or ASTM C 840 and manuf acturer
recommendations.  Regular gypsum wallboard is permitted under tile or wall panels in other wall
and ceiling areas when installed in accordance with GA 216 or ASTM C 840.
B. LIMITATIONS: Water-resistant gypsum backing board “green board” shall not be used in the
f ollowing locations:
a. Over a vapor retarder or in shower or bathtub compartments.
b. Where there will be direct exposure to water or in areas subject to continuous high humidity
c. On ceiling where f rame spacing exceeds 12 inches O.C. for 1/2” thick water resistant
gypsum backing board and more than  16 inches O.C. for 5/8” thick water resistant gypsum
backing board.
6. Water-Resistance gypsum “green board” shall not be used in shower or other similar wet or high-humidity
locations.  Use reinf orced mortar set base, or approved concrete or composite backer – board as mfg by
hardie backer” or equal, applied as per the current building code and the mfg’s spec’s.
8. All f raming spaced more than 16” o.c. to use 5/8” min gypsum wallboard
9. All areas under stairways use 1/2” type X gypsum wallboard
10. Use water resistant wallboard in toilet rooms.
11. Living space walls shall be lined w/ min. 1/2" gyp bd, @ ceiling provide 5/8”  gypsum board or 1/2” ceiling
density gypsum board where trusses are spaced @  2’-0” o.c. typ. U.O.N.
12. GYPSUM CORNER PROTECTION: Provide approved mfg. metal corner protection at all corners. Ref er to
the f loor plan ref erence notes or the f inish schedule to determine if the corners will be bull nose or have 90˚
bends. If the inf ormation is not provided consult with the owners for selection prior to pricing, purchase &
f abrication.
13. Fasteners:
A. Wood Framing w/ one half inch thick Gypsum board  –Non–Fire–Rated:  Provide minimum 5d cooler or
wall board nail; 1 5/8” long; 0.086-inch shank; 15/64 head-inch head. Or substitute 1 1/4”, No 6
Type “S” or “W” Drywall Screws, for the listed nails.
B. Drywall Screws for 5/8” board or as recommended by gypsum wallboard manuf acturer and code or as
noted on drawings.
14. Screw sizes given are for material applied directly to f raming: where material is applied over backing, increase
screw size as required per code.
15. INSTALLATION
A. Erect gypsum wallboard systems in accordance with applicable requirements of  ref erences, Standards
and Codes Article, ref erenced manuf acturer’s specif ications and governing codes.  Code and
manuf acturer’s specif ications shall govern in event of conf lict with Gypsum Association Standards.
B. Gypsum wallboard shall not be installed until adequate weather protection for the building is provided.
C. Install wallboard plumb, level, and / or plane, applied vertically or horizontally with vertical edges and
ends on bearing except that wallboard applied over sound deadening board shall be applied vertically
only.  Where board is applied horizontally, “rippers”, if required, shall be placed so that the cut edge is
at the ceiling or floor, cut edges and ends will not be acceptable within the field of the wallboard.
D. The size and spacing of f asteners shall comply with the current building code applicable edition, state
and local code.  Drywall nailing shall be according to requirements for the types and thickness being
used.  Proper space f astening as per manuf acturers specif ications and codes requirements, with heads
driven slightly below surf ace for proper cementing, but without breaking paper covering. Loosely butt
all joints to be taped, f irmly but concealed joints to be left untreated. Stagger end joints and joints in
f inish material 12” min. with those in backing.  Joints on opposite sides of partition shall occur on
different studs.  Install backing for f inish material to present no surf ace imperf ections in applied f inish.
Make holes and cutouts by sawing or by such method as will not f racture core or tear covering and with
such accuracy that plates, escutcheons, trim, etc will cover edges.  Clearance for cutouts in partitions
shall not exceed 1/4".
E.  Install metal edge trim at exposed edges and ends and all untrimmed joints between wallboard f inish
and other material.  Where edge trim is required at wallboard edge, and headers, studs, sill or other
backing are not available for positive f astening of trim, apply trim to board with contact type of
adhesive.
F. Gypsum board corner-aids and other similar items to be secured with nails or screws, use of corner
crimping tool, as the only means of f astening is not acceptable.
G. Gypsum board work and materials shall meet all requirements of A.N.S.I. for the application and
f inishing of wallboard joint compound system mixed, applied, and f inished in compliance with
manuf acturer’s printed directions, to be invisible af ter f inished, including all metal corner beads and
trim.
H. All drywall application are to be inspected and approved by the building of f icial prior to tape.
16. TAPING AND CEMENTING: Tape and cement gypsum wallboard shall be in accordance with
manuf acturer’s directions. Where wall covering is installed, f inish shall be smooth sanded without
imperf ections, too mark, etc. (3 coat min.).  Match existing for painted surf aces.  Tape and cement all
wallboard, except that inner layer of mulit-layer material need not be cemented and taped if joints are
staggered with f inish joints.
17. CAULKING GUYPSUM
A. When installing the gypsum wallboard provide a 3/16” to 1/4" wide gap around the entire perimeter of
all common wall and common ceilings.  The gap must then be f illed with a continuous bead of non-
hardening caulking compound or acoustical sealant.
B. If two layers of wallboard are applied to a wall surf ace the caulking must be perf ormed for each layer.
C. At all penetrations in common walls or common ceiling for such items as electrical boxes, light f ixtures,
plumbing lines, etc., leave a 3/16” to 1/4" gap in the wallboard around the f ixture, and then fill the gap
with a non-hardening caulking compound or acoustical sealant.  In addition, the backs of all electrical
boxes, telephone boxes, medicine cabinets, and other thin walled items inset into a common wall must be
covered with an air – tight sheetrock housing or with heavy mastic material, such as lowry pads.
D. The intent of these recommendations is to insure that an airtight common partition construction is
maintained.  A 1 sq. in hole, crack or gap in a 100 sq. ft. airtight construction.  Thus, the importance of
perf orming caulking and sealing completely and precisely cannot be overemphasized.
DIVISION 9 – FINISHES
09150 TILE:
1. Installation shall be in accordance with all requirements of the latest edition of “handbook
for ceramic Tile Installation”, Tile Council of America, Inc. (TCA)
2. All materials shall be certif ied by the Tile Council of America to equal or exceed “standard
grade” requirements of TCA latest edition.
3. Marble, dimensional stone, granite, Installation shall be in accordance with all requirements
of the latest edition of the “Marble Institute of America.”
4. Provide materials obtained from only one source for each type of tile and color to minimize
variations in appearance and quality.  Color and Materials to be approved by owner.
5. Ceramic tile, marble, dimensional stone, granite etc.  Shall not be installed under any
circumstances over a sub f loor consisting of “flake board”, oriented strand board or similar
type.
6. Grout joints for marble and granite tile shall be held as tight as possible and shall be unif orm
in width.
7. Grout joints for ceramic tile shall be as per manuf acturer’s recommendations with the owners
approval and shall be unif orm in width.
8. Where tile meets another f looring material (i.e., carpet, wood), concealed stripping as
required shall be used to form the tightest possible joining.  Door thresholds shall be
correctly located and centered under the closed-door line.  Exposed screws or nails are not
acceptable.
9. Counter top edge shape and size, and splash height and detail shall be approved by the
owner.  Run shall be as continuous as possible.
10. 
CERAMIC TILE: Ceramic tile shall be as def ined in, and shall conf orm to
therequirements of, ANSI A137.1.
11. MORTARS FOR CERAMIC WALL AND FLOOR TILE: Portland cementmortars for
installing ceramic wall and f loor tile shall comply with ANSIA108.1A and ANSI A108.
12. 
FIBER-CEMENT:  FIBER-MAT REINFORCED CEMENTITIOUS BACKER UNITS,
GLASS MAT GYPSUM BACKERS AND FIBER-REINFORCED GYPSUM BACKERS.
Fiber-cement, Fiber-mat reinf orced cementations backer units, glass mat gypsum backers or
f iber-reinf orced gypsum backers in compliance with ASTM C 1288, C 1325, C 1178 or C
1278, respectively, and installed in accordance with manuf acturers recommendations shall
be used as backers for wall tile in tub and shower areas and wall panels in shower areas.
09200 HARD WOOD FLOORING
1. Hardwood f loors to be installed per Manuf acturer’s specif ications and in accordance to
Nation Wood Floor Association (NWFA).
2. Site Conditions: The building shall be dry and enclosed.  Permanent heat, light and
ventilation shall be installed and operable. The hard wood shall be pre-stored in the building
for 1 week to ensure the woods moisture content and temperature is acclimated to the
buildings interior environment conditions prior to installation.
3. Under-layment should be clean, level and dry.  Fill cracks, grooves, voids and/or
Construction joints with manuf acturer approved leveling compound.
4. Flooring to be allowed to reach equilibrium with the location prior to the installation.
5. See Manuf acturer’s specif ications for installation including, but not limited to, sub f loor
requirements, installation of vapor barrier, pre-drilling for nailing, nailing location, spacing
and penetration into sub floor.
6. Sand f looring per Manuf acturer’s recommendations. Fill nail holes, cracks and blemishes
prior to f ine sanding cut.  Stain or f inish immediately af ter sanding is completed and swept/
vacuumed. Apply all f inish materials per Manuf acturer’s specif ications.
09250 FLOOR TREATMENT
1. All f looring material shall be slip-resistant and conf orm to min. standards of applicable
edition of ASTM.
2. Color and material selections to be approved by owner.
3. Vinyl Floor to be installed where shown on the drawings or noted on the Room Finish
Schedule.
4. Carpet, Provide carpet per Allowance Schedule.  Allowance to include price for carpet, pad,
installation materials and installation of carpet and pad.  Where carpet meets another
f looring material (i.e., tile, vinyl, hardwood), concealed stripping as required shall be used to
form the tightest possible joining.  Door thresholds shall be correctly located and centered
under the closed-door line.  Exposed screws or nails are not acceptable.
09550 PAINTS & STAINS:
1. 
Samples: The painter shall submit sample colors & stains to the owners for approval prior to
painting. Samples shall be of adequate size for the owners and shall include the color, gloss, texture
and material.  For natural and stained wood f inishes, provide sample on each type and quality of
wood used on the project.
2. 
Paint exposed surf aces.  If an item or a surf ace is not specif ically mentioned, paint the item or
surf ace the painter shall consult with the owners for color approval.
3. 
Do not paint pre-f inished items, concealed surf aces, f inished metal surf aces, operating parts, and
labels.
4. 
Deliver materials to Project site in manuf acturer's original, unopened packages and containers
bearing manuf acturer's name and label. Packaging shall bear the manuf acturer's name, label, and
the f ollowing list of inf ormation:
5. 
Storage: Store and dispose of solvent-based materials, and materials used with solvent based
materials, in accordance with requirements of local authorities having jurisdiction Store materials in
an area that is within the acceptable temperature range, per manuf acturer's instructions. Protect from
f reezing. Handling: Maintain a clean, dry storage area, to prevent contamination or damage to the
coatings. Store materials not in use in tightly covered containers in a well-ventilated area at a
minimum ambient temperature of 45 deg F (7 deg C). Maintain storage containers in a clean
condition, free of f oreign materials and residue.
6. 
PROJECT CONDITIONS: Maintain environmental conditions (temperature, humidity, and
ventilation) within limits recommended by manuf acturer for optimum results.  Do not install products
under environmental conditions outside manuf acturer's absolute limits. Apply waterborne paints only
when temperatures of surf aces to be painted and surrounding air are between 50 and 90 deg F (10
and 32 deg C). Apply solvent-thinned paints only when temperatures of surf aces to be painted and
surrounding air are between 45 and 95 deg F (7 and 35 deg C). Do not apply paint in snow, rain, fog,
or mist; or when relative humidity exceeds 85 percent; or at temperatures less than 5 deg F (3 deg C)
above the dew point; or to damp or wet surf aces. Painting may continue during inclement weather if
surf aces and areas to be painted are enclosed and heated within temperature limits specif ied by
manuf acturer during application and drying periods. No exterior or interior painting shall be done
until surf aces are thoroughly dry and cured.
7. 
Manuf acturer's Warranty:  Provide manuf acturer's standard written warranty against def ects in
manuf acturing for each product installed.
8. 
Extra Material: Furnish the Owner with extra paint materials as appropriate, of each material
and color applied for f uture repairs. Consult w/ the owners for max quantities. Also f urnish the
owners with a list of the different paint mfg’s & mixtures / colors used on the project so the owners
can use this for f uture maintenance & repairs.
9. 
Material Compatibility:  Provide primers and f inish-coat materials that are compatible with one
another and with the substrates indicated under conditions of service and application, as
demonstrated by manuf acturer based on testing and field experience.
10. 
VOC Classif ication:  Provide coating materials, including primers, undercoats, and f inish-coat
materials, that have a VOC classif ication per the CAL GREEN requirements.
11. 
Do not begin installation until substrates have been properly prepared.
12. 
Remove Fixtures:  Remove hardware and hardware accessories, plates, machined surf aces,
lighting f ixtures, and similar items already installed that are not to be painted.  If removal is
impractical or impossible because of size or weight of the item, provide surf ace-applied protection
bef ore surf ace preparation and painting. Af ter completing painting operations in each space or area,
reinstall items removed using workers skilled in the trades involved.
13. 
Cleaning:  Bef ore applying paint or other surf ace treatments, clean substrates of substances that
could impair bond of the various coatings.  Remove oil and grease bef ore cleaning. Schedule cleaning
and painting so dust and other contaminants from the cleaning process will not fall on wet, newly
painted surf aces.
14. 
Application:  Apply paint according to manuf acturer's written instructions.  Use applicators and
techniques best suited for substrate and type of material being applied. Use applicators and
techniques best suited for the material being applied. Do not apply high-perf ormance coatings over
dirt, rust, scale, grease, moisture, scuffed surf aces, or conditions detrimental to f orming a durable
coating f ilm.
15. 
Finish Coats: Application of Mold and Mildew-Proof Exterior Paint: All surf aces shall be clean,
sound and dry at time of application. First Coat: Apply at container consistency using synthetic
bristle brush, roller, pad applicator or sprayer. Avoid painting in direct sunlight and maintain "wet
edge" to avoid lapping. Dry time: Dries in 1 hour. Second Coat -- Wait until the f irst coat of paint is
dry (1 hours is recommended) bef ore applying the second coat.
16. 
Clean-up: Af ter completing painting, clean glass and paint-spattered surf aces.  Remove spattered
paint by washing and scraping without scratching or damaging adjacent f inished surf aces.
17. 
Protect work of other trades, whether being painted or not, against damage from painting.
Correct damage by cleaning, repairing or replacing, and repainting, as approved by Owners.
18. 
Provide "Wet Paint" signs to protect newly painted f inishes.  Af ter completing painting
operations, remove temporary protective wrappings provided by others to protect their work. Af ter
work of other trades is complete, the painter shall touch up and restore damaged or def aced painted
surf aces
DIVISION 10 – SPECIALTIES & MISC.
DIVISION 15 – MECHANICAL & PLUMBING
15025 BASIC MECHANICAL DESIGN & INSTALLATION
1. 
HEATING DURING WINTER CONDITIONS: Interior spaces intended for human
occupancy shall be provided with active or passive space-heating systems capable of maintaining a
minimum indoor temperature of 68ºF at a point 3 feet above the f loor on the design heating day.
The systems shall be thermostatically controlled with appropriate zoning to achieve the above
conditions.
2. 
Installation:  All items shall be installed in accordance with the manuf acturers
recommended printed installation instructions and accepted shop drawings, and conf ormance to
applicable codes and governing agencies requirements.  Adhesive installation will not be
permitted.
3. 
Building Heating & Cooling Loads: shall be determined using a method based on any
one of the f ollowing:
a. The ASHRAE handbook, Equipment Volume, Applications Volume and
Fundamentals Volume.
b. The SMACNA Residential comf ort system installation standards manual
c. The ACCA Manual J
4. 
Design Conditions: For the purpose of sizing the space conditioning (HVAC) system, the
indoor design temperatures shall be 68ºF for heating and 75ºf for cooling.
5. Outdoor Condensing Unit Clearances: Install air conditioner and heat pump outdoor
condensing units shall have a clearance of at least 5 feet from the outlet of any dryer vent.
6. Thermostat’s: All unitary heating or cooling systems including heat pumps, not controlled
by a central energy management control system (EMCS) shall have a setback thermostat.
7. Setback Capabilities: All thermostats shall have a clock mechanism that allows the
building occupant to program the temperature set points for at least for periods within 24 hours.
8. CMC Compliance: All air distribution system ducts and plenums, including but not
limited to, mechanical closets and air handler boxes, shall be installed, sealed and insulation to
meet the requirements of the CMC. Duct Construction Standard Metal and Flexible 3rd Edition,
incorporated here in by ref erence. Portions of Supply air and return air ducts and plenums of a
space heating or cooling system shall either be insulated to a minimum installed level of R-6.0 (or
any higher level required by CMC.) Be enclosed entirely in directly conditioned space as conf irmed
through field verif ication and diagnostic testing in accordance with the requirements of Ref erence
Residential Appendix RA 3.1.4.3.8. Connections of metal ducts and the inner core of f lexible ducts
shall be sealed with mastic, tape or other duct-closure system that meets that applicable
requirements of UL 181, UL 181A or UL 181B or aerosol sealant that meets the requirements of
UL 723. If mastic or tape is used to seal opening greater than 1/4 inch, the combination of mastic
and either mesh or tape shall be used
9. 
These notes are the copy write property of James George and shall not be copied or located
on any set of plans that does not bear the title block of James George Designs or George
construction and design. If these notes are f ound to be copied or located in any area other than
that labeled above please notif y James George @ [707] 580-6704
15075 AIR DISTRIBUTION:
1. Ductwork shall comply with the minimum weight standards as set f orth in the Current Mechanical
Code.  Galvanized f ittings shall be insulated with 1” f iberglass.  Provide automatic fire dampers and
miscellaneous materials where required by code or design.  Provide ductwork for “island” cook top per
code and requirements of governing agencies.
2. FIREWALL PENETRATION: All air ducts penetrating the separation wall or ceiling between
garage and living area shall be 26 GA minimums per Current Building Code.
3. Listed duct f urnaces shall be installed with clearances of at least 6 inches between Adjacent walls,
ceilings, and f loor of combustible material and the f urnace draft hood. Furnaces listed for installation
at lesser clearances shall be installed in accordance with their listings.  In no case shall the clearance
be such as to interf ere with combustion air and accessibility.
4. CIRCULATING AIR:  Where a duct f urnace is installed so that supply ducts carry air circulated by
the f urnace to areas outside the space containing the f urnace, the return air shall also be handled by a
duct(s) sealed to the f urnace casing and terminating outside the space containing the f urnace.  The duct
f urnace shall be installed on the positive-pressure side of the circulating air blower.
5. PROTECTION AGAINS FLOOD DAMAGE TO DUCTING: In f lood hazard areas, ducts shall be
located 1’ above the design f lood elevation.
6. JOINTS AND SEAMS OF DUCTS: Joints of duct systems shall be made substantially airtight by
means of approved tapes, mastics, gasketing, or other approved means.
7. GENERAL INSTALLATION OF DUCTS: Air ducts installed under a f loor in a crawl space shall be
installed so as to maintain a vertical clearance of 18 inch for all portions of the duct that would obstruct
access to any part of the crawl space.
8. INSTALLATION OF METAL DUCTING: Shall be installed with a least 4-inch separation from
earth.  Metal ducts when installed in or under a concrete slab shall be encased in at least 2 inch of
concrete.
9. SUPPORT OF DUCTS: Installers shall provide the manuf acturer’s field f abrication and installation
instructions.
10. INSULATION OF DUCTS: Approved insulating materials shall be installed within ducts and
plenums for insulating, sound deadening, or other purposes.  Materials shall have a mold, humidity, and
erosion-resistant surf ace that meet the requirements of the ref erenced standard for air ducting.
11. FIRE WALL PENETRATIONS: All air ducts penetrating the separation wall or ceiling between
garage and living area shall be 26 GA minimums per Current Building Code.
12. AIR DISTRIBUTION: Ductwork shall comply with the minimum weight standards as set forth in
the Current Mechanical Code.  Galvanized f ittings shall be insulated with 1” f iberglass.  Provide
automatic fire dampers and miscellaneous materials where required by code or design.  Provide
ductwork for “island” cook top per code and requirements of governing agencies.
13. BACKDRAFT DAMPERS: All fan systems, regardless of volumetric capacity, that exchange air
between the building conditioned space and the outside of the building shall be provided with back draft
or automatic dampers to prevent unintended air leakage through the fan system when the fan system is
not operating.
14. Duct system sealing and leakage testing: when space conditioning system utilize f orced air duct
systems to supply conditioned utilize f orced air duct systems to supply conditioned air to an occupiable
space, the ducts shall be sealed, as conf irmed through f ield verif ication and diagnostic testing, in
accordance with all applicable procedures specif ied in Ref erence Residential Appendix Ra3.1
a. For single Family Dwellings ducts connected directly to the air handler, the total leakage
of the duct system shall not exceed 6 percent of the nominal system air handler airf low.
15. Central fan Integrated ventilation system: Central f orced air system f ans used in central fan
integrated ventilation system shall demonstrate, in air distribution mode, an air-handling unit fan
ef f icacy less than or equal to 0.58 W/CFM as conf irmed through field verif ication and diagnostic testing
in accordance with all applicable procedures specif ied in Ref erence Residential Appendix RA3.3.
a. When whole house f ans are required (REQ), only these whole house f ans that are listed in
the Appliance Ef f iciency Directory may be installed.
16. Ventilation Cooling: Single-f amily homes shall comply with the whole house fan (WHF)
requirements.
a. Have installed one or more WHF’s whose total airf low CFM as listed in the CEC
directory is at least 2 CFM/FT2 of conditioned f loor area.
b. Have at least 1 square f oot of attic vent free area for each 375 CFM of rated whole house
fan air flow CFM
c. Provide homeowner who have WHF with a one page “how to operate your whole house
f an” inf ormational sheet
09450FIBER CEMENT SIDING [ LAP BOARD, PANEL, OR SHINGLE SIDING]:
1. 
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: Fiber cement siding shall conf orm to the requirements of
ASTM C 1186 and shall be so identif ied on labeling listing an approved quality control agency.
2. 
These notes are the copy write property of James George and shall not be copied or located
on any set of plans that does not bear the title block of James George Designs or George
construction and design. If these notes are f ound to be copied or located in any area other than
that labeled above please notif y James George @ [707] 580-6704
3. SHEATHING: The siding shall be installed over sheathing and shall be installed to
conf orm to the water-resistive barrier requirements in section 1403. Siding and accessories
shall be installed in accordance with approved manuf acturer’s instructions. Unless otherwise
specif ied in the approved manuf acturer’s instructions, nails used to f asten the siding to wood
studs shall be corrosion-resistant round head smooth shank and shall be long enough to
penetrate the studs  at least 1 inch. For metal f raming, all-weather screws shall be used and
shall penetrate the metal f raming at least three full threads.
4. 
3.  WATER-RESISTIVE BARRIER: A minimum of one layer of No. 15 asphalt felt,
complying with ASTM D 226 of Type 1 felt or other approved materials, 
shall be
attached to the studs or sheathing, with f lashing in such a manner as to 
provide a
continuous water-resistive barrier behind the exterior wall veneer.
5. 
4. PANEL SIDING: Panels shall be installed with the long dimension parallel to f raming.
Vertical joint shall occur over f raming members and shall be sealed with caulking or covered
with battens.  Horizontal joint shall be f lashed with Z-f lashing and blocked with solid wood
f raming.
6. 
HORIZONTAL LAP SIDING: Lap siding shall be lapped a minimum of 1/ 4” and shall
have the ends sealed with caulking covered with an H section joint covered or located over a
strip of f lashing. Lap siding courses shall be permitted to be installed with the f astener heads
exposed or concealed, according to approved manuf acturer’s instructions.
7. 
6. FASTENING: Weather boarding and wall covering shall be securely f astened with
aluminum, copper, zinc, zinc-coated or other approved corrosion-resistant f asteners per the
approved manuf acturer’s installation instructions.
8. 
PANEL SIDING. Fiber-cement panels shall comply with the requirements of ASTM C1186,
Type A, minimum grade II. Panels shall be installed with the long dimension wither parallel or
perpendicular to f raming. Vertical and horizontal joints shall occur over f raming members and
shall be sealed with caulking, covered with battens. Panel siding shall be installed with
f asteners according to the approved manuf acturer’s installation instructions.
9. 
LAP SIDING. Fiber-cement lap siding having a maximum width of 12 inches shall comply
with the requirements of ASTM C1186, Type A, minimum grade II. Lap siding shall be lapped a
minimum of 1 ¼ inches and lap siding not having tongue and groove end joints shall have the
ends sealed with caulking, installed with an H section joint cover, located over a strip of
f lashing. Lap siding courses may be installed with the f astener heads exposed or concealed,
according to the approved manuf acturer’s installation instructions.
09500 PLY T1-11 OR BOARD & BATTEN SIDING:
1.  
WATER-RESISTIVE BARRIER: A minimum of one layer of No. 15 asphalt 
felt, complying with ASTM D 226 of Type 1 felt or other approved materials shall be
attached to the studs or sheathing, with f lashing in such a manner as toprovide a
continuous water-resistive barrier behind the exterior wall veneer.
2. 
PANELS: Panels shall be installed with the long dimension parallel to f raming.
Vertical joint shall occur over f raming members and shall be sealed with caulking or
covered with battens.  Horizontal joint shall be f lashed with Z-f lashing and blocked
with solid wood f raming.
3. 
FASTENING: Ply T1-11 wall covering shall be securely f astened with zinc, zinc-
coated or other approved corrosion-resistant f asteners per the approved
manuf acturer’s installation instructions. The nail size & spacing shall be per the
structural plans & shall be a minimum of 8d Nails @ 6”o.c. edges & 12”o.c. in the
f ield. The structural requirements shall govern for size & spacing.
10100 MIRRORS:
1. MIRRORS:  Fixed mirrors shall be one piece, 1/4" plate glass with polished edges.  Size as
shown on interior elevations sheets or by owner.  Mirrors to be set
in “J” metal at top of splash with a minimum of two clips at top, and per owner’s requirements
and specif ications. Each vanity shall be provided with a cased out mirror unless the owner(s)
request otherwise, consult w/ owners.
10150 ATTIC ACCESS OPENING:
1. An Attic access opening shall be provided in buildings with combustible ceiling or roof
construction.  The opening shall be located in a corridor, hallway or other readily accessible
location.  Attics with a maximum vertical clear height of less than 30” need not be provided with
access openings.  The attic access opening shall not be less than 22” x 30” minimum (30” x 30”
minimum when mechanical equipment is in the attic that will not fit through a smaller opening)
or opening size as determined by other requirements, such as mechanical equipment access.  30”
minimum clear headroom shall be provided above the opening.
2. Provide a permanently attached insulation using adhesive or mechanical f asteners.  The attic
access shall be gasketed to prevent air leakage
10200 UNDER FLOOR ACCESS OPENING:
1. Provide a min 18”x24’ clear crawl access opening w/ a f looring f inish to match the surrounding
f looring f inish.
2. Provide gasket / insulation on all interior under f loor accesses.
15500 PLUMBING:
1. Where plumbing supply lines occur in common walls the lines must be isolated from
surrounding support with plumbing isolators.  Isolators with a f lexible neoprene or sof t padding
insert are pref erable to those having a one-piece plastic construction. The plumbing lines
including drain lines must not rest against any part of the surrounding structure, such as joists,
studs, or wallboard, in order for the plumbing isolation to be ef f ective.
2. Approvals.  All pipe, f ittings, traps, f ixtures, material, and devises used in a plumbing system
shall be labeled by a listing agency.
3. Flood Hazard Resistance: Plumbing systems shall be located above the design f lood elevation
unless the systems are designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating.
4. Avoid installing plumbing lines through main living space walls whenever possible.
5. Piping and/or ducting within f loor/ceiling assemblies shall be supported from the joist and
completely isolated from the ceiling.
6. These notes are the copy write property of James George and shall not be copied or located on
any set of plans that does not bear the title block of James George Designs or George
construction and design. If these notes are f ound to be copied or located in any area other than
that labeled above please notif y James George @ [707] 580-6704
7. The stud bay or joist cavity surrounding the supply and waste piping shall be f itted with open-
f aced f iberglass or equivalent sound absorptive material.
8. Caulking should be perf ormed at all pipe penetrations in common walls and ceilings.
9. Use cast iron drain line in all areas where the flow of water can be heard from inside the living
space.
10. Materials, construction and minimum quality shall comply with applicable Plumbing Codes and
governing agencies codes, regulations, ordinances and requirements.
11. Equipment shall bear a permanent and legible nameplate on which shall appear, the
manuf acturer’s name and rating of the appliance. A seal of approval of the appliance by an
approved testing laboratory.
12. Each unit shall bear a metal nameplate securely affixed to the appliance and readily accessible
for inspection.  Identif ying the name and address of the installer.  If other than the owner.
13. All gas appliances except water heater and range top burners, shall be equipped with
intermittent ignition devices
14. Installation instructions for all listed equipment shall be provided to the field inspector at the
time of inspection per the current mechanical code.
15. The Designer assumes no and shall not be responsible for the use, Installation or perf ormance
of polybutylene materials and systems or similar type piping materials and systems.
16. The contractors shall verif y the size of the water supply line for combined domestic and fire
sprinkler use.
17. Solders containing more than two tenths of 1% lead in making joints on is prohibited.
18. All welding shall be perf ormed with E-70 electrodes by welders certif ied for welds to be made.
All welding shall conf orm to the structural welding code of the American Welding Society.
19. Direction if Flow: All valves, pipes, and f ittings shall be installed in correct relationship to the
direction of flow.
20. Piping installation: No piping for plumbing shall be directly imbedded in concrete or masonry.
No structural member shall be seriously weakened or impaired, by cutting, notching, or
otherwise. All piping in connection with a plumbing system shall be installed so that piping or
connections will not be subject to undue stresses or strains.
21. Exposed Piping:  Piping shall not be exposed to direct sunlight.  Exception:  Vent piping
through roof .  Plumbing vents through roof , exposed to sunlight, shall be protected by water
base synthetic latex paints.  Adequate support shall be provided where ABS piping is exposed to
wind, snow, and ice loading.
22. Waterproofing of Openings:  Joints at the roof around pipes, ducts, or other appurtenances
shall be made water tight by the use of lead, copper, galvanized iron, or other approved
f lashings or f lashing material.  Exterior wall openings shall be made watertight.
23. Pipe Protection: Plastic and copper piping penetrating a f raming member to within one (1)
inch of the exposed f raming shall be protected by steel nail plates not lass than 0.0478 inches
(18 gauge) in thickness.  The steel nail plate shall extend along the f raming member a minimum
of 1-1/2 inches beyond the outside diameter of the pipe or tubing.
24. Sleeves in concrete & firewalls: Sleeves shall be provided to protect all piping through concrete
and masonry walls and concrete f loors. Any pipe sleeve through a f irewall shall have space
around the pipe completely sealed with an approved f ire-resistive material in accordance with
all other codes.
25. Rat Proof ing:  Strainer plates on drain inlets shall be designed and installed so that no opening
is greater than one-half (1/2) inch in the least dimension.  Where openings have been made in
walls, f loors, or ceilings for the passage of pipes, such openings shall be closed and protected
by installation of approved metal collar securely f astened to the adjoining structure. Tub waste
openings in f ramed construction to crawl spaces at or below the f irst f loor shall be protected by
the installation of approved metal collars or metal screen securely f astened to the adjoining
structure with no opening greater than one-half (1/2) inch.
26. Hangers and Supports: All piping shall be supported in such a manner as to maintain its
alignment and prevent sagging.
27. Quality of Fixtures:  Plumbing f ixtures shall be constructed of dense, durable, non-absorbent
materials and shall have smooth, impervious surf aces free from unnecessary concealed f ouling
surf aces.
AS4
