AS NOTED
SHEET NUMBER:
OF
PROJECT TITLE:
REVISIONS:
SHEET DESCRIPTION:
SCALE:
DATE:
CODE
REQUIREMENTS
& GENERAL
SPECIFICATIONS
THESE PLANS ARE CONSIDERED PERLIMINARY AND NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION UNLESS THESE PLANS BEAR THE WET OR DIGITAL SIGNATURE OF JAMES GEORGE.  ALONG WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S REVIEW SEAL OF APPROVAL AND WET SIGNATURE.
PROJECT DESIGNER
JAMES GEORGE
PLANS PREPARED BY:
7-10-2022
W/ 22 SHEETS TOTAL
CELL: 707 580-6704
FAX 707 438-0377
DESIGNS
DESIGNS
JAMES GEORGE
JAMES GEORGE
INC
INC
OFF: 707 425- 4156
30 LEMON HILL TRAIL
JAMESGEORGEDESIGNS.COM
E-MAIL : j ame s @j ame s ge or ge de s igns . c om
NAPA, CALIF, 94558
JAMES GEORGE DESIGNS INC.  IS A DIVISION  OF A&J CONSULTING SERVICES INC.
F O R : M E L I S S A B E R I K E R
2 0 0 6 W E B B E R A V E
VOUNTVILLE, CA. 94599
APN # 036-053-009
DWELLING ADDITION PLANS
AS3
15550 SHOWER & TUB / SHOWER REQUIREMENTS:
1. SHOWER: Shower compartments and walls above bathtubs with installed shower heads shall
be f inished with a smooth, nonabsorbent surf ace to a height not less than 72 inches above the
floor.
2. Anti scold device: Anti scold device shall be set at 120 degrees.
3. WATERPROOF JOINTS: Built-in tubs with showers shall have waterproof joints between
the tub and adjacent wall f inish.
4. Tub & Shower Wall Tile: Shower area and wall panels in shower areas shall be f iber-cement,
f iber-mat reinf orced cement, glass mat gypsum backers or f iber-reinf orced gypsum backers shall
be installed per manuf acture’s recommendations.  Water-resistant gypsum backing board shall
not be used where there will be direct exposure to water, or in areas subject to continuous high
humidity
15600 TOILETS & BIDETS:
1. Toilets:  Water closets, either f lush tank, f lushometer tank, or f lushometer valve
operated, shall have an average consumption of not more than 1.28 gallons of water per
f lush.
2. Toilets & bidet placement & mounting:  Fixtures shall be set level and in proper
alignment with ref erence to adjacent walls.  No water closet or bidet shall be set closer
than fifteen (15) inches (381 mm) from its center to any side wall or obstruction nor
closer than thirty (30) inches (762 mm) center to center to any similar f ixture.  The clear
space in f ront of any water closet or bidet shall not be less than twenty-f our (24) inches
(610 mm).
DIVISION 16 – ELECTRICAL
16025 ELECTRICAL (DESIGN/BUILD) shall be by the installer:
1. Rules and Regulations:  All work and materials shall be in full accordance with the latest f ederal,
state, county, city or governing agencies unif orm codes, rules, regulations, ordinances, or
amendments and shall comply with the requirements of the service power and telephone companies/
utilities.  Nothing in these drawings or notes shall be construed to permit work not conf orming to
those codes or requirements.
2. Electrical system layouts on this set of plans are generally diagrammatic, locating of outlet and
equipment is approximate. Electrician shall have owner’s approval for all electrical outlets & lights
f ixture locations prior to wiring by means of walk thru w/ owner.  Exact routing or wiring, locations
of outlets to be governed by structural conditions and obstructions.
3. Electric plan is a suggested layout.  Consult with owner for specialty electrical f eatures such as
central vacuum system, intercom, security system, cable televisions, outlets, phone outlets, special
lighting, etc., prior to construction.
4. Align Recessed lighting fixtures with the owners, unless noted otherwise.
5. The Contractor and Subcontractor shall verif y availability of services and determine actual
details pertaining to exact locations and requirements bef ore submitting his bids.
6. All work shall be in full accordance with all codes, rules and regulations of governing agencies
and shall comply with the requirements of the serving power, telephone and communication
companies.
7. Upon Receipt of notice that electrical contract award has been made, successf ul bidder shall
notif y power and telephone companies / utilities of the estimated date when service shall be desired.
8. Contractor Guarantee: All equipment and appliances f urnished and installed shall be guaranteed
by the Contractor / Sub-contractor for a minimum period of one (1) year from the date of
acceptance by the owner.
9. These notes are the copy write property of James George and shall not be copied or located on any
set of plans that does not bear the title block of James George Designs or George construction and
design. If these notes are f ound to be copied or located in any area other than that labeled above
please notif y James George @ [707] 580-6704
16050 MATERIALS / ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS:
1. Materials, & construction, and minimum quality shall comply with applicable Current Codes and
governing agencies codes, regulations, ordinances and requirements.
a. Aluminum wire shall not be used in electrical wiring within the building or dwelling unit.
2. Conductors normally used to carry current shall be of copper.
3. Conductors of dissimilar metals shall not be intermixed in a terminal or splicing connector where
physical contact occurs between dissimilar materials  such as [copper and aluminum, copper and
copper clad aluminum, or aluminum and copper clad aluminum]. Unless the devise is identif ied for
the purpose and conditions of the use.
4. Splices: Conductors shall be spliced or joined with splicing devices identif ied for use or by
brazing, welding, or soldering with a f usible metal or alloy. Soldered splices shall f irst be spliced or
joined so as to be mechanically and electrically secure without solder an then be soldered.
5. Bond all metal gas and water pipes to a ground.  All ground clamps shall be accessible and of an
approved typ.
6. Furnace must be hard-wired with a f usible link
7. The bonding jumper shall be SIZED to the LARGEST ungrounded service entrance conductor or
equivalent area for parallel conductors (AWG/kcmil-Table 250.66).  The connection of a bonding
jumper to a grounding electrode shall be made in a manner that will ensure an effective grounding
path.
8. A uf er ground or two (2) grounding electrodes are required, and shall not be less than 6 feet apart.
A 6 AWG or smaller shall be in rigid metal conduit, intermediate metal conduit rigid nonmetallic
conduit, electrical metallic tubing or cable armor. Indicate on the plans which grounding system
will be used.
16075 INSTALLATION OF BRANCH CIRCUITS WIRING:
1. The electrical installer shall walk thru and locate all receptacles with the Owner or Designer
prior to installation of wiring & drywall.
2. Light circuits shall be min15 AMP with #14 AWG copper conductors.
3. Receptacle circuits shall be min 20 AMP with min. #12 AWG copper conductors.
4. Appliance circuits shall be separate 20 AMP with min.  #12 AWG copper conductors.
5. The grounding wire larger than 6 awg shall be identif ied by one of the f ollowing means. 1. By a
continuous white or gray outer f inish. 2. By 3 continuous white stripes on its entire length on other
than green insulation. 3. At time of installation, by a distinctive white or gray markings on its
terminations. This marking shall encircle the conductor or insulation.
6. Provided minimum two (2) separate 20-ampere small appliance circuits at the kitchen, counters
with no other outlets on them.
7. A dedicated 20 AMP branch circuit shall be provided to supply bathroom receptacle outlet[s].
This circuit shall not supply any other outlets.
8. Provide a separate 20-ampere branch circuit dedicated for laundry receptacle outlet[s]. This
circuit shall have no other outlets on it.
9. In residential branch circuits the voltage shall not exceed 120 volts nominal between conductors
that supply the terminals of lighting f ixtures, and receptacles for cord-and-plug connected loads
1440 volt-amperes nominal, or less than ¼ H.P. horse power.
10. Branch circuits serving cooking appliances shall have an ampacity not less than the rating of the
branch circuit and not less than the max. load to be served. For ranges w/ an 8 3/4 kW or more
rating the min. branch circuit rating shall be 40 amperes.
11. Conductor wire shall have an insulated neutral and a f our-prong outlet is required for dryers and
cooking units.
12. Over current protection: Branch circuit conductors and f eeders shall have over current protection
at the point where the conductors receive their power supply by approved means such as a circuit
breaker.
13. Floor receptacles: shall allow for f loor cleaning equipment with out damage to the receptacle and
shall be made weather-proof by means of a weather proof f ace plate assembly that provides a
watertight connection between the plate and the f inished surf ace.
14. Conduit piping located within planting areas shall be placed a minimum of 18” below f inish
grades.
15. All electrical equipment, breakers, and time clock controls shall be properly labeled.
16. Installation instructions for all listed equipment shall be provided to the field inspector at time of
inspection.
17. Mastic sealer (Lowry pads or equivalent) shall be wrapped around back, sides, top and bottom of
all electrical boxes in party walls.
18. Electrical boxes shall be backed by R-13 f iberglass as needed to completely fill the stud bay.
19. Unused openings: Unused cable or raceway openings in boxes, raceways, cutout boxes, cabinets,
meter enclosures, equipment cases, etc. shall be ef f ectively closed to afford protection substantially
equivalent to the wall of the equipment. My clients do not want any bug’s or rats, etc getting in and
cooked.
20. Attic access opening: Where NM cable (Romex) is run across the top of ceiling joists and/or
where the attic is not accessible by permanent stairs or ladders, protection within 6’ of the nearest
edge of the scuttle hole or attic entrance shall be provided.
21. Internal parts of the electrical equipment, elect boxes, insulators, shall not be damaged or
contaminated by f oreign materials such as but not limited to paint, plasters, cleaners, abrasives, or
corrosive residues.
22. All electrical operated f ixtures, outlets, equipment or devices whether installed by this contract or
others, shall be fully connected to proper electrical sources and left in operation condition.
23. All elect. Equipment shall be f irmly secured to the surf ace on which it is mounted.
24. Ventilation: Electrical Equipment that depends on natural circulation of air and convection
principles for cooling of exposed surf aces shall be installed so that room airf low over such surf aces
is not prevented.
25. Unless identif ied for use in the operating environment, no conductors or equipment shall be
located in damp or wet locations: where exposed to gasses, f umes, vapors, liquids, or other agents
that have a deteriorating effect on the conductors or equipment: or where exposed to excessive
temperatures.
26. Marking: The mfg’s name, trademark, or other descriptive marking by which the organization
responsible for the product can be identif ied shall be placed on all electrical equipment.
27. Wiring @ garages, shops, & basements: All wiring below 8’ above the f inish f loor shall be
concealed behind min 1/2” gyp board or shall be in approved conduit typical.
16100 SWITCH & RECEPTACLE LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
1. Not Used
2. Appliance dedicated receptacle outlets in dwelling units shall be located with-in 6’ of the
appliance being served or as required by the mfg.
3. Receptacles in habitable rooms shall be installed so that no point measured horizontally
along the f loor line in any wall space is more than 12 feet horizontally from an outlets
starting at 6 feet horizontally from a wall end. Wall space includes any space 2’ or more in
length including around corners, the f ixed panel on slider doors, and the space afforded by
f ixed room dividers such as free standing bar-type counters and railings. Floor receptacles
will not count for this requirement unless they are located with-in 18” of the wall
4. Outlets @ Exterior doors: a Receptacle outlet shall be provided inside the building with-in 6’
of all exterior doors.
5. General-use receptacles in kitchens shall be installed vertically above worktop and splash at
+47” above f inish f loor (at bathroom +42”) unless noted otherwise on plans, verif y f inal
heights with owners.
6. Receptacles shall be installed vertically at not less than +12” above f inish f loor for a
habitable space and not less than 18” above the f loor in garages and work-shops.
7. Wall switches shall be installed vertically at +42” above f inish f loor or as determined by the
Owner or Designer.
8. These notes are the copy write property of James George and shall not be copied or located on
any set of plans that does not bear the title block of James George Designs or George
construction and design. If these notes are f ound to be copied or located in any area other
than that labeled above please notif y James George @ [707] 580-6704
9. Kitchen receptacles: shall be installed at each counter space 12” or wider so that no point
along the wall line is more than 2’ measured horizontally from a receptacle outlet in that
space. Sinks & cook tops are considered to split 2 separate counter spaces and receptacles
are not required behind said items. At least one receptacle shall be provided at each island
that is larger than 1’ x 2’. Where a cook top or sink is installed in an island counter and the
space behind the cook top or sink is less than 1’ the island is considered to be separated into
2 separate counter top spaces. A receptacle is reqd @ each peninsula counter 24”x 12” or
longer.
10. Receptacles in countertops and other similar locations shall not be installed f ace up. MFG
listed Push button pop-up receptacles shall be used.
11. Electrical boxes in fire walls: (switches, outlets, wall f ixtures, etc.), in opposite f aces of
f irewall separation wall shall be separated horizontally by not less than 24 inches, (i.e., in
different stud bays).
12. kitchen appliances shall be provided with a dedicated receptacle as requirement for that
appliance, plugs may not be shown on electrical plan for clarity.  Appliances include but are
not limited to range, refer, dishwasher, stove, ovens, trash compactor, etc.
16125 Ground fault circuit-interrupter outlets [G.F.C.I.]:
1. Protection on all 125-volt, single phase, 15 and 20 ampere receptacles  shall be provided in
the f ollowing locations:
g. Bathrooms, outdoors, crawl spaces, unf inished basements, kitchens- where the
receptacles are installed to serve the counter top surf aces, laundry rooms/utility
rooms/wet bar sinks where the receptacles are installed with-in 6’ of the outside edge
of a sink. Garages and accessory buildings not intended to be habitable such as work
shops, storage, and similar use have the same requirements except receptacles that
are not readly accessible, located 8’ or more above the floor, & a receptacle located in
a space dedicated for 2 appliances that in normal use are not easily moved to another
place and are cord and plug connected.
16150  Arc-Fault Circuit Interrupter [AFCI]:
1. All 120-volt, single phase, 15-and 20 ampere branch circuits supplying outlets, Receptacles,
lights, smoke detectors, etc installed in dwelling unit f amily rooms, dining rooms, living rooms,
parlors, libraries, dens, bedrooms, sunrooms, recreation rooms, closets, hallways, or similar
rooms or areas shall be protected by a listed arc-f ault circuit interrupter, combination type
installed to provide protection of the branch circuit. The AFCI shall be installed at the
origination of the branch circuit or it shall be installed with-in 6’ of the branch circuit over-
current device as measured along the conductor device, and the circuit conductors between the
over-current device and the AFCI shall be insulated in a metal raceway or a cable with a
metallic shield.
16175 Outdoor wet locations / exposed to weather [WPGFCI] outlets:
1. All outlets installed outdoors and exposed to weather shall be WP [weather-proof ] and
provided with G.F.C.I. (Ground Fault-circuit Interrupter). And shall have an enclosure that is
weatherproof whether or not the attachment plug cap is inserted. Where the product intended
to be plugged in is not attended while in use shall have an enclosure that is weatherproof with
the attachment plug cap inserted or removed.
16200 GENERAL LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
1. At least one (1) wall switch-controlled lighting outlet shall be installed in each habitable
room.
2. Lighting: All lighting shall be high ef f iciency.
3. Stairway lighting: Where a light is provided above a stairway a switch for that light shall be
provided both at the top and bottom of the stairs.
4. Wet Locations: Luminaries installed in wet or damp locations shall be installed so water
cannot enter or accumulate in the wiring compartments or other elect parts. Luminaries
installed in wet locations shall be marked “suitable for wet locations.” Luminaries installed in
damp locations shall be marked “suitable for wet locations” or  “suitable for damp
locations.” for damp locations, or listed for wet locations where subject to shower spray.
5. Luminaries near combustible materials shall be constructed, installed, and or equipped with
shades or guards so that combustible material is not subjected to temperatures in excess 90˚C
[194˚F]
6. Space for cove lighting: cove lighting shall have adequate space and shall and shall be
located so that lamps and equipment can be properly installed and maintained.
7. Pendant lamp holders: with permanently attached leads shall be hung from separate
stranded rubber covered conductors that are soldered directly to the circuit conductors but
supported independently thereof .
8. Tension: Conductors shall be arranged so that weight of the f ixture and or moveable parts
does not put tension on the conductors.
9. Marking: All luminaries [f ixtures] shall be marked with the max lamp wattage or electrical
rating, the mfg’s name, trademark, or other suitable means of identif ication.
10. Combustible materials: Luminaries [f ixtures shall be installed so that adjacent combustible
material will not be subject to temperatures in excess of 90˚C 194˚F
11. Recessed non IC rated fixtures that is not identif ied for contact with insulation shall have all
recessed parts spaced not less than 1/2” from combustible materials. And shall not be located
in any spaces with insulation.
12. Recessed type IC rated fixtures shall be required in any space where insulation may be
located or where the light is with-in 1/2” of a wood f raming member.
13. Insulation @ Recessed light fixtures shall not be installed above a recessed f ixture or with-in
3” of the f ixtures enclosure, wiring compartment, or ballast unless it is identif ied for contact
with insulation, type IC.
14. Luminaries recessed in insulated ceilings must meet 3~requirements:
a. They must be rated for direct insulation contact (IC) rated
b. They must be certif ied as air tight construction
c. They must have a sealed gasket or caulking between the housing and ceiling to prevent flow
of heated or cooled air out of the living areas and into the ceiling cavity.
16350 CIRCUIT BREAKERS, ELECT PANELS, AND OVERCURRENT DEVICES:
1. Circuit breakers shall be marked with their ampere rating in a manor that will be durable and
visible af ter installation. Said markings shall be permitted to be made visible by removing of the
trim or cover.
2. Circuit breakers rated at 100 amperes or less and 600 volts or less shall have the ampere
rating molded, stamped, or etched or similarly marked into their handles or escutcheon areas.
3. Over-current devices shall be readily accessible and installed so the center of the grip of the
operating handle of the switch or circuit breaker when in its highest position is not more than
6’-7” above the f loor or walking platf orm.
4. Prohibited Over current device / circuit breaker locations: over current devices and circuit
breakers  shall not be located in the vicinity of easily ignitable materials such as in closets and
said items shall not be located in bathrooms.
5. Circuit breakers and over current devices shall not be located where they will be exposed to
physical damage and shall be protected by installing in enclosures, cabinets, cutout boxes, or
equipment assemblies.
6. Electrical panels shall not be installed in closets and bathrooms. Maintain a clearance of 36”
inches in f ront of panels, 30” wide or width of equipment and 6’-6”
16400 HARD WIRED SMOKE ALARMS / SMOKE DETECTORS:
1. Smoke Alarms: Smoke alarms shall be listed in accordance with UL 217, installed in
accordance with NFPA 72, & Calif ornia State Fire Marshall.
a. Smoke alarms shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the manuf acturer’s
instructions. Smoke Alarms that no longer f unction shall be replaced. Smoke Alarms installed in
one and two f amily dwellings shall be replaced af ter 10 years from the date of manuf acture
marked on the unit, of it the date of manuf acture cannot be determined.
2. Power source: Smoke detectors shall receive their primary power from the building wiring
when such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery back
up.  The detector shall emit a signal when the batteries are low.  Wiring shall be permanent and
without a disconnecting switch other than those required for over current protection. Per the
Current Building Code.
3. Interconnection: Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be installed the smoke
alarms shall be interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will activate
all the alarms in the individual unit. The alarm shall be clearly audible in all bedrooms over
background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
4. Location within dwelling units.  In dwelling units a smoke alarm shall be installed in:
a. In each room used for sleeping purposes
b. Outside of each separate sleeping area on the wall or ceiling at a point within the  immediate
vicinity of bedrooms.
c. In each story, including basement
d. Dwelling unit with split level and without an intervening door between the adjacent levels, a
smoke detector shall be installed on the upper level provided the lower level is less then a full
story below the upper level.
e. Alterations, repairs, or additions over $ 1,000 dollars (May be battery operated.)
f. Smoke Detectors or Smoke Alarm shall not be located in direct airf low or closer than three (3)
feet from an air supply diffuser or return air openings. There may be circumstances where a
separation of three (3) is not adequate and a greater separation is required depending upon the
HVAC velocity and type of dif f users.
1. Installation: Install the smoke detector in strict accordance with the manuf acturer’s printed
installation instructions. Smoke Alarms Location Requirements: The installation of smoke
alarms and smoke detectors shall comply with the f ollowing requirements
a. Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall no be located where ambient conditions, including
humidity and temperature, are outside the limits specif ied by the manuf acturer’s published
instructions.
b. Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be located within unf inished attics or garage or in
other spaces where temperatures can fall below 40ºF (4ºC) or exceed 100ºF (38ºC)
c. Where the mounting surf ace could become considerably warmer or cooler than the room, such
as a poorly insulated ceiling below and unf inished attic or and exterior wall, smoke alarms and
smoke detectors shall be mounted on and inside wall.
d. Smoke alarms or smoke detectors shall be installed a minimum of 20ft Horizontal distance
from a permanently installed cooking appliance.
a. Exception: Ionization smoke alarms with an alarm silencing switch or Photoelectric smoke
alarms shall be permitted to be installed 10f t or greater from a permanently installed cooking
appliance.
b. Photoelectric smoke alarms shall be permitted to be installed greater then 6ft from a
permanently installed cooking appliance where the kitchen or cooking area and adjacent spaces
have no clear interior partitions and the 10f t distances would prohibit the placement of a smoke
alarm or smoke detector that is required.  Smoke alarms listed for use in close proximity to
permanently installed cooking appliance.
e. Installation near bathrooms. Smoke alarms shall be installed not less than a 3 f oot horizontal
distance from the door or opening of a bathroom that contains a bathtub or shower unless this
would prevent placement of a smoke alarm required by other sections of this code.
f. Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be installed within a 36” horizontal path from the
supply registers of a f orce air heater or cooling system and shall be installed outside of the
direct airf low from those registers
g. Smoke alarm and smoke detectors shall not be installed within a 36” horizontal path from the
tip of a the blade of a ceiling-suspended (paddle) f an.
h. Where stairs lead to other occupied levels, a smoke alarm and smoke detectors shall be located
so that smoke rising in the stairway cannot be prevented from reaching the smoke alarm and
smoke detectors by an intervening door or obstruction.
i. For stairways leading up from a basement, smoke alarm and smoke detectors shall be located on
the basement ceiling near the entry to the stairs
5. For tray-shaped ceiling (coffered ceilings), smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall be
installed on the highest portion of the ceiling or on the sloped portion of the ceiling within 12”
vertically down from the highest point.
16450 HARDWIRED CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS:
1. General: Approved carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in dwelling units and
sleeping units within which f uel-burning appliances are installed and in dwelling units that
have attached garages.
2. Carbon Monoxide Alarms: Single & multiple station carbon monoxide alarms shall be
listed as complying with the requirements of UL2034. Carbon monoxide detectors shall be
listed as complying with the requirements of UL2075. Carbon monoxide alarms & detectors
shall be installed per the current code, the current edition of NFPA720, and the MFG’S
installation instructions.
3. Power source: Carbon Monoxide alarms shall receive their primary power from the building
wiring when such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a
battery back up.  The detector shall emit a signal when the batteries are low.  Wiring shall be
permanent and without a disconnecting switch other than those required for over current
protection. Per the Current Building Code.
4. Interconnection: Where more than one carbon monoxide alarm is required to be installed
the alarms shall be interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will
activate all the alarms in the individual unit. The alarm shall be clearly audible in all
bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
5. Multiple-Purpose Alarms: Combination smoke and carbon monoxide alarms can be in
stalled as long as they comply with the listing requirements for each alarm.
6. Location within dwelling units.  In dwelling units a carbon monoxide alarm shall be
installed in the f ollowing locations:
a. Outside of each separate dwelling unit sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the
bedroom or bedrooms.
b. On every level of the dwelling unit including the basements.
15630 Water Supply and Distribution:
1. 
Approval of Devices or Assemblies: Bef ore any device or assembly is installed for the
prevention of backf low, it shall have f irst been approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
2. 
Fixtures, appliances, or appurtenances with integral backf low preventers or integral air gaps
manuf actured as a unit shall be installed in accordance with their listing requirements and the
manuf acturers’ instructions.
3. 
Water supply inlets to tanks, vats, sumps, swimming pools, and other receptors shall be
protected by one of the f ollowing means:  an approved air gap, or a backf low preventer.
4. 
Protection from Lawn Sprinklers and Irrigation Systems:  Potable water supplies to
systems having no pumps or connections for pumping equipment, and no chemical injection or
provisions for chemical injection, shall be protected from backf low by one of the f ollowing devices;
atmospheric vacuum breaker, pressure vacuum breaker, spill-resistant pressure vacuum breaker, or a
reduced-pressure backf low preventer.
5. 
Tubing shall be copper water tube and installed without joints where possible.
6. 
COPPER TUBE for water piping shall have a weight of not less than that of copper water
tube type L. Execution: Type “M” copper tubing may be used for water piping when piping is above
ground and the normal maximum pressure does not exceed 100 pounds, and the working
temperature does not exceed 210 degrees Fahrenheit.  Copper pipe connection to f errous or other
metal shall be with dielectric coupling or isolated f langes.
7. 
Hose Bibs other than water heater drains, boiler drains, and clothes washer connections
shall be protected by a nonremovable hose-bibb-type backf low preventer, a nonremovable hose-bibb-
type vacuum breaker, or by a atmospheric vacuum breaker installed at least six (6) inches (152) mm)
above the highest point of usage located on the discharge side of the last valve.  In climates where
f reezing temperatures occur, a listed self -draining f rost-proof hose bibb with an intergral backf low
preventer or vacuum breaker shall be used. All exterior hose bibs shall be provided with a min. 3/4"ø
supply line.
8. 
Plumbing Fixture Fittings:  Plumbing f ixture f ittings with integral backf low protection shall
comply with ASME A112.18.1
9. 
Materials All pipe, tube, and f ittings carrying water used in potable water systems intended
to supply drinking water shall meet the requirements of NSF 61.  All materials used in the water
supply system, except valves and similar devices, shall be of a like material, except where otherwise
approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
10. 
Copper tube for water piping shall have a weight of not less than Type L.  The exception is
that Type M copper tubing may be used for water piping when piping is aboveground in, or on, a
building or underground outside of structures.
11. 
Lead Content: Water pipe and f ittings with a lead content which exceeds eight (8) percent
shall be prohibited in piping systems used to convey potable water.
12. 
Testing:  Upon completion of a section or of the entire hot and cold water supply system, it
shall be tested and proved tight under a water pressure not less than the working pressure under
which it is to be used.
13. 
Unions:  Unions shall be installed in the water supply piping within twelve (12) inches (305
mm) of regulating equipment, water heating, conditioning tanks, and similar equipment that may
require service by removal or replacement in a manner that will f acilitate its ready removal.
14. 
Low-Pressure Cutoff Required on Booster Pumps for Water distribution Systems:  When a
booster pump – excluding a fire pump – is connected to a water service or underground water pipe,
a low-pressure cutof f switch on the inlet side of the pump shall be installed within five (5) feet (1524
mm) of the inlet.  The cutof f switch shall be set for not less than ten (10) psi (68.9 kPa).  A pressure
gage shall be installed between the shutof f valve and the pump.
15. 
Water piping and cooling system line insulation thickness and conductivity. Piping shall
be insulated to the thicknesses as follows:
a. 
All domestic hot water system piping conditions listed below, whether buried or unburied, must be insulated
and the insulation thickness shall be selected based on the conductivity range in TABLE 120.3-A and the insulation
level shall be selected from the fluid temperature range based on the thickness requirements in TABLE 120.3-A:
1. The first 5 feet (1.5 meters) of hot and cold water pipes from the storage tank.
2. All piping with a nominal diameter of 3/4 inch (19 millimeter) or larger.
3. All piping associated with a domestic hot water recirculation system regardless of the pipe
diameter.
4. Piping from the heating source to storage tank or between tanks.
5. Piping buried below grade.
6. All hot water pipes from the heating source to the kitchen fixtures.
Insulation Protection. Insulation outside conditioned space shall be protected from damage, including that due to
sunlight, moisture, equipment maintenance, and wind. Protection includes but is not limited to the following:
1. Insulation exposed to weather shall be installed with a cover suitable for outdoor service, including but not
limited to aluminum, sheet metal, painted canvas, or plastic cover. The cover shall be water retardant and
provides shielding from solar radiation that can cause degradation of the material.
2. Insulation covering chilled water piping and refrigerant suction piping located outside the conditioned space
shall have a Class I or Class II vapor retarder.
16. 
Water Pipes In trenches: Water pipes shall not be run or laid in the same trench as building
sewer or drainage piping constructed of clay or materials that are not approved for use within a
building unless both of the f ollowing conditions are met:
a. 
The bottom of the water pipe, at all points, shall be at least twelve (12) inches above the top
of the sewer or drain line.
b. 
The water pipe shall be placed on a solid shelf excavated at one side of the common trench
with a Minimum clear horizontal distance of at least twelve (12) inches (305 mm) from the sewer or
drain line.
17. 
Flexible Corrugated Connectors:  Flexible corrugated connectors of copper or stainless
steel shall be limited to the f ollowing connector lengths:
a. 
Water Heater Connectors – twenty-f our (24) inches
b. 
Fixture Connectors – thirty (30) inches
c. 
Washing Machine Connectors – seventy-two (72) inches
d. 
Dishwasher and Icemaker Connectors – one hundred twenty (120) inches
15650 Disinf ection of Potable Water System:
1. 
The pipe system shall be f lushed with clean, potable water until only potable water appears at
the points of outlet.
2. 
The system or parts thereof shall be f illed with a water-chlorine solution containing at least
fifty (50) parts per million of chlorine, and the system or part thereof shall be valved- off and allowed
to stand for twenty-f our (24) hours; or, the system or part thereof shall be f illed with a water-chlorine
solution containing at least two hundred (200) parts per million of chlorine and allowed to stand for
three (3) hours.
3. 
Following the allowed standing time, the system shall be f lushed with clean, potable water
until the chlorine residual in the water coming from the system does not exceed the chlorine residual
in the f lushing water.
4. 
The procedure shall be repeated it if is shown by bacteriological examination persists in the
system.
AS4
