AS NOTED
SHEET NUMBER:
OF
PROJECT TITLE:
REVISIONS:
SHEET DESCRIPTION:
SCALE:
DATE:
CAL GREEN
CHECK LIST
THESE PLANS ARE CONSIDERED PERLIMINARY AND NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION UNLESS THESE PLANS BEAR THE WET OR DIGITAL SIGNATURE OF JAMES GEORGE.  ALONG WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S REVIEW SEAL OF APPROVAL AND WET SIGNATURE.
PROJECT DESIGNER
JAMES GEORGE
PLANS PREPARED BY:
7-10-2022
W/ 22 SHEETS TOTAL
CELL: 707 580-6704
FAX 707 438-0377
DESIGNS
DESIGNS
JAMES GEORGE
JAMES GEORGE
INC
INC
OFF: 707 425- 4156
30 LEMON HILL TRAIL
JAMESGEORGEDESIGNS.COM
E-MAIL : j ame s @j ame s ge or ge de s igns . c om
NAPA, CALIF, 94558
JAMES GEORGE DESIGNS INC.  IS A DIVISION  OF A&J CONSULTING SERVICES INC.
F O R : M E L I S S A B E R I K E R
2 0 0 6 W E B B E R A V E
VOUNTVILLE, CA. 94599
APN # 036-053-009
DWELLING ADDITION PLANS
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL MANDATORY MEASURES
DIVISION 4.1
PLANNING AND DESIGN
DIVISION 4.3
WATER EFFICIENCY AND CONSERVATION
4.406 ENHANCED DURABILITY AND REDUCED MAINTENANCE
4.406.1 RODENT PROOFING.  Annular spaces around pipes, electric cables, conduits or other openings in
sole/bottom plates at exterior walls shall be protected against the passage of rodents by closing such
openings with cement mortar, concrete masonry or a similar method acceptable to the enforcing 
agency.
4.408 CONSTRUCTION WASTE REDUCTION, DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING
4.408.1 CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT.  Recycle and/or salvage for reuse a minimum of 65
percent of the non-hazardous construction and demolition waste in accordance with either Section
4.408.2, 4.408.3 or 4.408.4, or meet a more stringent local construction and demolition waste 
management ordinance.
Exceptions:
1.
Excavated soil and land-clearing debris.
2.
Alternate waste reduction methods developed by working with local agencies if diversion or
      recycle facilities capable of compliance with this item do not exist or are not located reasonably
      close to the jobsite.
3.
The enforcing agency may make exceptions to the requirements of this section when isolated
jobsites are located in areas beyond the haul boundaries of the diversion facility.
4.408.2 CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.  Submit a construction waste management plan
in conformance with Items 1 through 5.  The construction waste management plan shall be updated as
necessary and shall be available during construction for examination by the enforcing agency.
1.
Identify the construction and demolition waste materials to be diverted from disposal by recycling,
reuse on the project or salvage for future use or sale.
2.
Specify if construction and demolition waste materials will be sorted on-site (source separated) or
bulk mixed (single stream).
3.
Identify diversion facilities where the construction and demolition waste material collected will be
taken.
4.
Identify construction methods employed to reduce the amount of construction and demolition waste
generated.
5.
Specify that the amount of construction and demolition waste materials diverted shall be calculated
by weight or volume, but not by both.
4.408.3  WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPANY.  Utilize a waste management company, approved by the
enforcing agency, which can provide verifiable documentation that the percentage of construction and
demolition waste material diverted from the landfill complies with Section 4.408.1.
Note:  The owner or contractor may make the determination if the construction and demolition waste
materials will be diverted by a waste management company.
4.408.4  WASTE STREAM REDUCTION ALTERNATIVE [LR].  Projects that generate a total combined
weight of construction and demolition waste disposed of in landfills, which do not exceed 3.4 
lbs./sq.ft. of the building area shall meet the minimum 65% construction waste reduction requirement in
Section 4.408.1
4.408.4.1  WASTE STREAM REDUCTION ALTERNATIVE.  Projects that generate a total combined
weight of construction and demolition waste disposed of in landfills, which do not exceed 2 pounds
per square foot of the building area, shall meet the minimum 65% construction waste reduction 
requirement in Section 4.408.1
4.408.5 DOCUMENTATION.  Documentation shall be provided to the enforcing agency which demonstrates
compliance with Section 4.408.2, items 1 through 5, Section 4.408.3 or Section 4.408.4..
Notes:
1.
Sample forms found in "A Guide to the California Green Building Standards Code
(Residential)" located at www.hcd.ca.gov/CALGreen.html may be used to assist in
documenting compliance with this section.
2.
Mixed construction and demolition debris (C & D) processors can be located at the California
Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery (CalRecycle).
4.410 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION
4.410.1 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL.  At the time of final inspection, a manual, compact
disc, web-based reference or other media acceptable to the enforcing agency which includes all of the
following shall be placed in the building:
1.
Directions to the owner or occupant that the manual shall remain with the building throughout the
life cycle of the structure.
2.
Operation and maintenance instructions for the following:
a.
Equipment and appliances, including water-saving devices and systems, HVAC systems,
photovoltaic systems, electric vehicle chargers, water-heating systems and other major
appliances and equipment.
b.
Roof and yard drainage, including gutters and downspouts.
c.
Space conditioning systems, including condensers and air filters.
d.
Landscape irrigation systems.
e.
Water reuse systems.
3.
Information from local utility, water and waste recovery providers on methods to further reduce
resource consumption, including recycle programs and locations.
4.
Public transportation and/or carpool options available in the area.
5.
Educational material on the positive impacts of an interior relative humidity between 30-60 percent
and what methods an occupant may use to maintain the relative humidity level in that range.
6.
Information about water-conserving landscape and irrigation design and controllers which conserve
water.
7.
Instructions for maintaining gutters and downspouts and the importance of diverting water at least 5
feet away from the foundation.
8.
Information on required routine maintenance measures, including, but not limited to, caulking,
painting, grading around the building, etc.
9.
Information about state solar energy and incentive programs available.
10. A copy of all special inspections verifications required by the enforcing agency or this code.
11. Information from the Department of Forestry and Fire Protection on maintenance of defensible
space around residential structures.
12. Information and/or drawings identifying the location of grab bar reinforcements.
4.410.2 RECYCLING BY OCCUPANTS.  Where 5 or more multifamily dwelling units are constructed on a
building site, provide readily accessible area(s) that serves all buildings on the  site and are identified for the
depositing, storage and collection of non-hazardous materials for recycling, including (at a minimum) paper,
corrugated cardboard, glass, plastics, organic waster, and metals, or meet a lawfully enacted local recycling
ordinance, if more restrictive.
Exception: Rural jurisdictions that meet and apply for the exemption in Public Resources Code Section
42649.82 (a)(2)(A) et seq. are note required to comply with the organic waste portion of
this section.
DIVISION 4.4
MATERIAL CONSERVATION AND RESOURCE
EFFICIENCY
DIVISION 4.5
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
4.303
INDOOR WATER USE
4.303.1 WATER CONSERVING PLUMBING FIXTURES AND FITTINGS.  Plumbing fixtures (water closets and 
urinals) and fittings (faucets and showerheads) shall comply with the sections 4.303.1.1, 4.303.1.2, 4.303.1.3, 
and 4.303.4.4.
Note: All noncompliant plumbing fixtures in any residential real property shall be replaced with water-conserving
plumbing fixtures. Plumbing fixture replacement is required prior to issuance of a certificate of final 
completion, certificate of occupancy, or final permit approval by the local building department. See Civil 
Code Section 1101.1, et seq., for the definition of a noncompliant plumbing fixture, types of residential 
buildings affected and other important enactment dates.
4.303.1.1  Water Closets.  The effective flush volume of all water closets shall not exceed 1.28 gallons per 
flush.  Tank-type water closets shall be certified to the performance criteria of the U.S. EPA WaterSense 
Specification for Tank-type Toilets.
Note:  The effective flush volume of dual flush toilets is defined as the composite, average flush volume
of two reduced flushes and one full flush.
4.303.1.2  Urinals.  The effective flush volume of wall mounted urinals shall not exceed 0.125 gallons per flush.
The effective flush volume of all other urinals shall not exceed 0.5 gallons per flush.
4.303.1.3  Showerheads.
4.303.1.3.1  Single Showerhead.  Showerheads shall have a maximum flow rate of not more than 1.8 
gallons per minute at 80 psi.  Showerheads shall be certified to the performance criteria of the U.S. EPA
WaterSense Specification for Showerheads.
4.303.1.3.2 Multiple showerheads serving one shower.  When a shower is served by more than one 
showerhead, the combined flow rate of all the showerheads and/or other shower outlets controlled by 
a single valve shall not exceed 1.8 gallons per minute at 80 psi, or the shower shall be designed to only
allow one shower outlet to be in operation at a time.
Note:  A hand-held shower shall be considered a showerhead.
4.303.1.4  Faucets.
4.303.1.4.1  Residential Lavatory Faucets.  The maximum flow rate of residential lavatory faucets shall
not exceed 1.2 gallons per minute at 60 psi.  The minimum flow rate of residential lavatory faucets shall
not be less than 0.8 gallons per minute at 20 psi.
4.303.1.4.2  Lavatory Faucets in Common and Public Use Areas.  The maximum flow rate of lavatory
faucets installed in common and public use areas (outside of dwellings or sleeping units) in residential 
buildings shall not exceed 0.5 gallons per minute at 60 psi.
4.303.1.4.3  Metering Faucets.  Metering faucets when installed in residential buildings shall not deliver
more than 0.2 gallons per cycle.
4.303.1.4.4  Kitchen Faucets.  The maximum flow rate of kitchen faucets shall not exceed 1.8 gallons 
per minute at 60 psi.  Kitchen faucets may temporarily increase the flow above the maximum rate, but not
to exceed 2.2 gallons per minute at 60 psi, and must default to a maximum flow rate of 1.8 gallons per 
minute at 60 psi.
Note:  Where complying faucets are unavailable, aerators or other means may be used to achieve 
reduction.
4.303.1.4.5 Pre-rinse spray valves.
When installed, shall meet the requirements in the California Code of Regulations, Title 20 (Appliance 
Efficiency Regulations), Sections 1605.1 (h)(4) Table H-2, Section 1605.3 (h)(4)(A), and Section 1607 
(d)(7) and shall be equipped with an integral automatic shutoff.
FOR REFERENCE ONLY: The following table and code section have been reprinted from the California
Code of Regulations, Title 20 (Appliance Efficiency Regulations),Section 1605.1 (h)(4) and Section 
1605.3 (h)(4)(A).
Title 20 Section 1605.3 (h)(4)(A): Commercial prerinse spray values manufactured on or after January 
1, 2006, shall have a minimum spray force of not less than 4.0 ounces-force (ozf)[113 grams-force(gf)]
4.303.2 Submeters for multifamily buildings and dwelling units in mixed-used residential/commercial 
buildings.
Submeters shall be installed to measure water usage of individual rental dwelling units in accordance with the 
California Plumbing Code.
4.303.3 Standards for plumbing fixtures and fittings.  Plumbing fixtures and fittings shall be installed in 
accordance with the California Plumbing Code, and shall meet the applicable standards referenced in Table 
1701.1 of the California Plumbing Code.
TABLE - MAXIMUM FIXTURE WATER USE
FIXTURE TYPE
FLOW RATE
SHOWER HEADS    (RESIDENTIAL)
1.8 GMP @ 80 PSI
LAVATORY FAUCETS (RESIDENTIAL)
MAX. 1.2 GPM @ 60 PSI   MIN.  0.8 GPM @ 20
PSI
LAVATORY FAUCETS IN COMMON & PUBLIC
USE AREAS
0.5 GPM @ 60 PSI
KITCHEN FAUCETS
1.8 GPM @ 60 PSI
METERING FAUCETS
0.2 GAL/CYCLE
WATER CLOSET
1.28 GAL/FLUSH
URINALS
0.125 GAL/FLUSH
4.304 OUTDOOR WATER USE
4.304.1 OUTDOOR POTABLE WATER USE IN LANDSCAPE AREAS.  Residential developments shall comply with
a local water efficient landscape ordinance or the current California Department of Water Resources' Model Water
Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO), whichever is more stringent.
NOTES:
1. The Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO) is located in the California Code Regulations,
Title 23, Chapter 2.7, Division 2. MWELO and supporting documents, including water budget calculator, are
available at: https://www.water.ca.gov/
ABBREVIATION DEFINITIONS:
HCD
Department of Housing and Community Development
BSC
California Building Standards Commission
DSA-SS
Division of the State Architect, Structural Safety
OSHPD
Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development
LR
Low Rise
HR
High Rise
AA
Additions and Alterations
N
New
NOTE:
THIS TABLE COMPILES THE DATA IN SECTION 4.303.1, AND IS INCLUDED AS A
CONVENIENCE FOR THE USER.
SECTION 4.102  DEFINITIONS
4.102.1 DEFINITIONS
The following terms are defined in Chapter 2 (and are included here for reference)
FRENCH DRAIN.  A trench, hole or other depressed area loosely filled with rock, gravel, fragments of brick or similar
pervious material used to collect or channel drainage or runoff water.
WATTLES. Wattles are used to reduce sediment in runoff. Wattles are often constructed of natural plant materials
such as hay, straw or similar material shaped in the form of tubes and placed on a downflow slope. Wattles are also
used for perimeter and inlet controls.
4.106 SITE DEVELOPMENT
4.106.1  GENERAL.  Preservation and use of available natural resources shall be accomplished through evaluation 
and careful planning to minimize negative effects on the site and adjacent areas.  Preservation of slopes, 
management of storm water drainage and erosion controls shall comply with this section.
4.106.2 STORM WATER DRAINAGE AND RETENTION DURING CONSTRUCTION.  Projects which disturb less 
than one acre of soil and are not part of a larger common plan of development which in total disturbs one acre
or more, shall manage storm water drainage during construction.  In order to manage storm water drainage 
during construction, one or more of the following measures shall be implemented to prevent flooding of adjacent
property, prevent erosion and retain soil runoff on the site.
1.
Retention basins of sufficient size shall be utilized to retain storm water on the site.
2.
Where storm water is conveyed to a public drainage system, collection point, gutter or similar
disposal method, water shall be filtered by use of a barrier system, wattle or other method approved
by the enforcing agency.
3.
Compliance with a lawfully enacted storm water management ordinance.
Note: Refer to the State Water Resources Control Board for projects which disturb one acre or more of soil, or
are part of a larger common plan of development which in total disturbs one acre or more of soil.
(Website: https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/stormwater/construction.html)
4.106.3 GRADING AND PAVING.  Construction plans shall indicate how the site grading or drainage system will 
manage all surface water flows to keep water from entering buildings.  Examples of methods to manage surface
water include, but are not limited to, the following:
1.
Swales
2.
Water collection and disposal systems
3.
French drains
4.
Water retention gardens
5.
Other water measures which keep surface water away from buildings and aid in groundwater
recharge.
Exception:  Additions and alterations not altering the drainage path.
4.106.4 Electric vehicle (EV) charging for new construction.  New construction shall comply with Sections 
4.106.4.1 or 4.106.4.2 to facilitate future installation and use of EV chargers. Electric vehicle supply 
equipment (EVSE) shall be installed in accordance with the California Electrical Code, Article 625.
Exceptions:
1. On a case-by-case basis, where the local enforcing agency has determined EV charging and
infrastructure are not feasible based upon one or more of the following conditions:
1.1  Where there is no local utility power supply or the local utility is unable to supply adequate
power.
1.2  Where there is evidence suitable to the local enforcing agency substantiating that additional
local utility infrastructure design requirements, directly related to the implementation of Section
4.106.4, may adversely impact the construction cost of the project.
2. Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADU) without additional
parking facilities.
4.106.4.1 New  one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses with attached private garages. For each 
dwelling unit, install a listed raceway to accommodate a dedicated 208/240-volt branch circuit. The raceway 
shall not be less than trade size 1 (nominal 1-inch inside diameter). The raceway shall originate at the main 
service or subpanel and shall terminate into a listed cabinet, box or other enclosure in close proximity to the 
proposed location of an EV charger. Raceways are required to be continuous at enclosed, inaccessible or 
concealed areas and spaces. The service panel and/or subpanel shall provide capacity to install a 40-ampere 
208/240-volt minimum dedicated branch circuit and space(s) reserved to permit installation of a branch circuit 
overcurrent protective device.
Exemption: A raceway is not required if a minimum 40-ampere 208/240-volt dedicated EV branch circuit is 
installed in close proximity to the proposed location of an EV charger at the time of original construction in 
accordance with the California Electrical Code.
4.106.4.1.1 Identification. The service panel or subpanel circuit directory shall identify the overcurrent 
protective device space(s) reserved for future EV charging as "EV CAPABLE". The raceway termination
location shall be permanently and visibly marked as "EV CAPABLE".
CHAPTER 3
GREEN BUILDING
SECTION 301  GENERAL
301.1 SCOPE.  Buildings shall be designed to include the green building measures specified as mandatory in
the application checklists contained in this code.  Voluntary green building measures are also included in the
application checklists and may be included in the design and construction of structures covered by this code,
but are not required unless adopted by a city, county, or city and county as specified in Section 101.7.
301.1.1 Additions and alterations. [HCD]  The mandatory provisions of Chapter 4 shall be applied to
additions or alterations of existing residential buildings where the addition or alteration increases the 
building's conditioned area, volume, or size. The requirements shall apply only to and/or within the 
specific area of the addition or alteration.
The mandatory provision of Section 4.106.4.2 may apply to additions or alterations of existing parking
facilities or the addition of new parking facilities serving existing multifamily buildings. See Section
4.106.4.3 for application.
Note: Repairs including, but not limited to, resurfacing, restriping and repairing or maintaining existing
lighting fixtures are not considered alterations for the purpose of this section.
Note: On and after January 1, 2014, residential buildings undergoing permitted alterations, additions, or
improvements shall replace noncompliant plumbing fixtures with water-conserving plumbing fixtures. 
Plumbing fixture replacement is required prior to issuance of a certificate of final completion, certificate
of occupancy or final permit approval by the local building department. See Civil Code Section 1101.1,
et seq., for the definition of a noncompliant plumbing fixture, types of residential buildings affected and
other important enactment dates.
301.2 LOW-RISE AND HIGH-RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS. [HCD]  The provisions of
individual sections of CALGreen may apply to either low-rise residential buildings high-rise residential 
buildings, or both.  Individual sections will be designated by banners to indicate where the section applies 
specifically to low-rise only (LR) or high-rise only (HR).  When the section applies to both low-rise and 
high-rise buildings, no banner will be used.
SECTION 302 MIXED OCCUPANCY BUILDINGS
302.1 MIXED OCCUPANCY BUILDINGS.  In mixed occupancy buildings, each portion of a building
shall comply with the specific green building measures applicable to each specific occupancy.
Exceptions:
1. [HCD] Accessory structures and accessory occupancies serving residential buildings shall
comply with Chapter 4 and Appendix A4, as applicable.
2. [HCD] For purposes of CALGreen, live/work units, complying with Section 419 of the California
Building Code, shall not be considered mixed occupancies. Live/Work units shall comply with
Chapter 4 and Appendix A4, as applicable.
4.106.4.2 New multifamily dwellings, hotels and motels and new residential parking facilities.
When parking is provided, parking spaces for new multifamily dwellings, hotels and motels shall meet the
requirements of Sections 4.106.4.2.1 and 4.106.4.2.2. Calculations for spaces shall be rounded up to the nearest
whole number. A parking space served by electric vehicle supply equipment or designed as a future EV charging
space shall count as at least one standard automobile parking space only for the purpose of complying with any
applicable minimum parking space requirements established by a local jurisdiction. See Vehicle Code Section 22511.2
for further details.
4.106.4.2.1Multifamily development projects with less than 20 dwelling units; and hotels and motels with less
than 20 sleeping units or guest rooms.
The number of dwelling units, sleeping units or guest rooms shall be based on all buildings on a project site subject to
this section.
1.EV Capable. Ten (10) percent of the total number of parking spaces on a building site, provided for all types
of parking facilities, shall be electric vehicle charging spaces (EV spaces) capable of supporting future Level 2
EVSE. Electrical load calculations shall demonstrate that the electrical panel service capacity and electrical
system, including any on-site distribution transformer(s), have sufficient capacity to simultaneously charge all
EVs at all required EV spaces at a minimum of 40 amperes.
The service panel or subpanel circuit directory shall identify the overcurrent protective device space(s) reserved
for future EV charging purposes as “EV CAPABLE” in accordance with the California Electrical Code.
Exceptions:
1.When EV chargers (Level 2 EVSE) are installed in a number equal to or greater than the required number
of EV capable spaces.
2.When EV chargers (Level 2 EVSE) are installed in a number less than the required number of EV capable
spaces, the number of EV capable spaces required may be reduced by a number equal to the number of
EV chargers installed.
Notes:
a.Construction documents are intended to demonstrate the project’s capability and capacity for facilitating
future EV charging.
b.There is no requirement for EV spaces to be constructed or available until receptacles for EV charging or
EV chargers are installed for use.
2.EV Ready. Twenty-five (25) percent of the total number of parking spaces shall be equipped with low power
Level 2 EV charging receptacles. For multifamily parking facilities, no more than one receptacle is required per
dwelling unit when more than one parking space is provided for use by a single dwelling unit.
Exception: Areas of parking facilities served by parking lifts.
4.106.4.2.2 Multifamily development projects with 20 or more dwelling units, hotels and motels with 20 or more
sleeping units or guest rooms.
The number of dwelling units, sleeping units or guest rooms shall be based on all buildings on a project site subject to
this section.
1.EV Capable. Ten (10) percent of the total number of parking spaces on a building site, provided for all types
of parking facilities, shall be electric vehicle charging spaces (EV spaces) capable of supporting future Level 2
EVSE. Electrical load calculations shall demonstrate that the electrical panel service capacity and electrical
system, including any on-site distribution transformer(s), have sufficient capacity to simultaneously charge all
EVs at all required EV spaces at a minimum of 40 amperes.
The service panel or subpanel circuit directory shall identify the overcurrent protective device space(s) reserved
for future EV charging purposes as “EV CAPABLE” in accordance with the California Electrical Code.
Exception: When EV chargers (Level 2 EVSE) are installed in a number greater than five (5) percent of
parking spaces required by Section 4.106.4.2.2, Item 3, the number of EV capable spaces required may be
reduced by a number equal to the number of EV chargers installed over the five (5) percent required.
Notes:
a.Construction documents shall show locations of future EV spaces.
b.There is no requirement for EV spaces to be constructed or available until receptacles for EV charging or
EV chargers are installed for use.
2.EV Ready. Twenty-five (25) percent of the total number of parking spaces shall be equipped with low power
Level 2 EV charging receptacles. For multifamily parking facilities, no more than one receptacle is required per
dwelling unit when more than one parking space is provided for use by a single dwelling unit.
Exception: Areas of parking facilities served by parking lifts.
3.EV Chargers. Five (5) percent of the total number of parking spaces shall be equipped with Level 2 EVSE.
Where common use parking is provided, at least one EV charger shall be located in the common use parking
area and shall be available for use by all residents or guests.
When low power Level 2 EV charging receptacles or Level 2 EVSE are installed beyond the minimum required,
an automatic load management system (ALMS) may be used to reduce the maximum required electrical
capacity to each space served by the ALMS. The electrical system and any on-site distribution transformers
shall have sufficient capacity to deliver at least 3.3 kW simultaneously to each EV charging station (EVCS)
served by the ALMS. The branch circuit shall have a minimum capacity of 40 amperes, and installed EVSE shall
have a capacity of not less than 30 amperes. ALMS shall not be used to reduce the minimum required electrical
capacity to the required EV capable spaces.
4.106.4.2.2.1 Electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS).
Electric vehicle charging stations required by Section 4.106.4.2.2, Item 3, shall comply with Section 4.106.4.2.2.1.
Exception: Electric vehicle charging stations serving public accommodations, public housing, motels and hotels
shall not be required to comply with this section. See California Building Code, Chapter 11B, for applicable
requirements.
4.106.4.2.2.1.1 Location.
EVCS shall comply with at least one of the following options:
1.The charging space shall be located adjacent to an accessible parking space meeting the requirements of
the California Building Code, Chapter 11A, to allow use of the EV charger from the accessible parking space.
2.The charging space shall be located on an accessible route, as defined in the California Building Code,
Chapter 2, to the building.
Exception: Electric vehicle charging stations designed and constructed in compliance with the California
Building Code, Chapter 11B, are not required to comply with Section 4.106.4.2.2.1.1 and Section
4.106.4.2.2.1.2, Item 3.
4.106.4.2.2.1.2 Electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS) dimensions.
The charging spaces shall be designed to comply with the following:
1.The minimum length of each EV space shall be 18 feet (5486 mm).
2.The minimum width of each EV space shall be 9 feet (2743 mm).
3.One in every 25 charging spaces, but not less than one, shall also have an 8-foot (2438 mm) wide minimum
aisle. A 5-foot (1524 mm) wide minimum aisle shall be permitted provided the minimum width of the EV space is
12 feet (3658 mm).
a.Surface slope for this EV space and the aisle shall not exceed 1 unit vertical in 48 units horizontal (2.083
percent slope) in any direction.
4.106.4.2.2.1.3 Accessible EV spaces.
In addition to the requirements in Sections 4.106.4.2.2.1.1 and 4.106.4.2.2.1.2, all EVSE, when installed, shall
comply with the accessibility provisions for EV chargers in the California Building Code, Chapter 11B. EV ready
spaces and EVCS in multifamily developments shall comply with California Building Code, Chapter 11A, Section
1109A.
4.106.4.2.3 EV space requirements.
1.Single EV space required. Install a listed raceway capable of accommodating a 208/240-volt dedicated branch
circuit. The raceway shall not be less than trade size 1 (nominal 1-inch inside diameter). The raceway shall
originate at the main service or subpanel and shall terminate into a listed cabinet, box or enclosure in close
proximity to the location or the proposed location of the EV space. Construction documents shall identify the
raceway termination point, receptacle or charger location, as applicable. The service panel and/ or subpanel shall
have a 40-ampere minimum dedicated branch circuit, including branch circuit overcurrent protective device
installed, or space(s) reserved to permit installation of a branch circuit overcurrent protective device.
Exception: A raceway is not required if a minimum 40-ampere 208/240-volt dedicated EV branch circuit is
installed in close proximity to the location or the proposed location of the EV space, at the time of original
construction in accordance with the California Electrical Code.
2.Multiple EV spaces required. Construction documents shall indicate the raceway termination point and the
location of installed or future EV spaces, receptacles or EV chargers. Construction documents shall also provide
information on amperage of installed or future receptacles or EVSE, raceway method(s), wiring schematics and
electrical load calculations. Plan design shall be based upon a 40-ampere minimum branch circuit. Required
raceways and related components that are planned to be installed underground, enclosed, inaccessible or in
concealed areas and spaces shall be installed at the time of original construction.
SECTION 4.501  GENERAL
4.501.1 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall outline means of reducing the quality of air contaminants that are odorous,
irritating and/or harmful to the comfort and well being of a building's installers, occupants and neighbors.
SECTION 4.502  DEFINITIONS
5.102.1 DEFINITIONS
The following terms are defined in Chapter 2 (and are included here for reference)
AGRIFIBER PRODUCTS. Agrifiber products include wheatboard, strawboard, panel substrates and door
cores, not including furniture, fixtures and equipment (FF&E) not considered base building elements.
COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS. Composite wood products include hardwood plywood, particleboard and
medium density fiberboard. "Composite wood products" does not include hardboard, structural plywood,
structural panels, structural composite lumber, oriented strand board, glued laminated timber, prefabricated
wood I-joists or finger-jointed lumber, all as specified in California Code of regulations (CCR), title 17, Section
93120.1.
DIRECT-VENT APPLIANCE. A fuel-burning appliance with a sealed combustion system that draws all air for
combustion from the outside atmosphere and discharges all flue gases to the outside atmosphere.
DISCLAIMER:THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED AND INTENDED TO BE USED AS A MEANS TO INDICATE AREAS OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS (CALGREEN) CODE.  DUE TO THE VARIABLES BETWEEN BUILDING DEPARTMENT JURISDICTIONS, THIS CHECKLIST IS TO BE USED ON AN INDIVIDUAL PROJECT BASIS AND MAY BE MODIFIED BY THE END USER TO MEET THOSE INDIVIDUAL NEEDS.  THE END USER ASSUMES ALL RESPONSIBILITY ASSOCIATED WITH THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT, INCLUDING VERIFICATION WITH THE FULL CODE.
Y
N/A
Y
N/A
Y
N/A
Y
N/A RESPON.
PARTY
RESPON.
PARTY
RESPON.
PARTY
RESPON.
PARTY
2022 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE
RESIDENTIAL MANDATORY MEASURES, SHEET 1 (January 2023)
Y   
=    
YES
N/A
=
NOT APPLICABLE
RESPON. PARTY
=
RESPONSIBLE PARTY (ie: ARCHITECT, ENGINEER, 
OWNER, CONTRACTOR, INSPECTOR ETC.)
4.201 GENERAL
4.201.1 SCOPE.  For the purposes of mandatory energy efficiency standards in this code, the California Energy
Commission will continue to adopt mandatory standards.
DIVISION 4.2
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
TABLE H-2
STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL PRE-RINSE SPRAY
VALUES MANUFACTURED ON OR AFTER JANUARY 28, 2019
PRODUCT CLASS
[spray force in ounce force (ozf)]
MAXIMUM FLOW RATE (gpm)
Product Class 1 (≤
1.00
Product Class 2 (> 5.0 ozf and ≤
1.20
Product Class 3 (> 8.0 ozf)
1.28
Exception: A raceway is not required if a minimum 40-ampere 208/240-volt dedicated EV branch circuit is
installed in close proximity to the location or the proposed location of the EV space at the time of original
construction in accordance with the California Electrical Code.
4.106.4.2.4 Identification.
The service panel or subpanel circuit directory shall identify the overcurrent protective device space(s) reserved for
future EV charging purposes as “EV CAPABLE” in accordance with the California Electrical Code.
4.106.4.2.5 Electric Vehicle Ready Space Signage.
Electric vehicle ready spaces shall be identified by signage or pavement markings, in compliance with Caltrans
Traffic Operations Policy Directive 13-01 (Zero Emission Vehicle Signs and Pavement Markings) or its
successor(s).
4.106.4.3 Electric vehicle charging for additions and alterations of parking facilities serving existing
multifamily buildings.
When new parking facilities are added, or electrical systems or lighting of existing parking facilities are added or
altered and the work requires a building permit, ten (10) percent of the total number of parking spaces added or
altered shall be electric vehicle charging spaces (EV spaces) capable of supporting future Level 2 EVSE.
Notes:
1.Construction documents are intended to demonstrate the project’s capability and capacity for facilitating future
EV charging.
2.There is no requirement for EV spaces to be constructed or available until EV chargers are installed for use.
CG-1
CG-2
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
2
2
PLAN CHECK
 REVISIONS 2-11-25
