AS NOTED
SHEET NUMBER:
OF
PROJECT TITLE:
REVISIONS:
SHEET DESCRIPTION:
SCALE:
DATE:
CODE
REQUIREMENTS
& GENERAL
SPECIFICATIONS
THESE PLANS ARE CONSIDERED PERLIMINARY AND NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION UNLESS THESE PLANS BEAR THE WET OR DIGITAL SIGNATURE OF JAMES GEORGE.  ALONG WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S REVIEW SEAL OF APPROVAL AND WET SIGNATURE.
PROJECT DESIGNER
JAMES GEORGE
PLANS PREPARED BY:
7-10-2022
W/ 22 SHEETS TOTAL
CELL: 707 580-6704
FAX 707 438-0377
DESIGNS
DESIGNS
JAMES GEORGE
JAMES GEORGE
INC
INC
OFF: 707 425- 4156
30 LEMON HILL TRAIL
JAMESGEORGEDESIGNS.COM
E-MAIL : j ame s @j ame s ge or ge de s igns . c om
NAPA, CALIF, 94558
JAMES GEORGE DESIGNS INC.  IS A DIVISION  OF A&J CONSULTING SERVICES INC.
F O R : M E L I S S A B E R I K E R
2 0 0 6 W E B B E R A V E
VOUNTVILLE, CA. 94599
APN # 036-053-009
DWELLING ADDITION PLANS
AS4
AS4
(CG01) Water conserving plumbing fixtures and fittings.
1. Water closets. The effective flush volume of all water closets shall not exceed 1.28 gallons per flush. Tank-type
water closets shall be certified to the performance criteria of the U.S. EPA Water Sense Specification for Tank-
type Toilets.
a. Note: The effective flush volume of dual flush toilets is defined as the composite, average flush volume
of two reduced flushes and one full flush.
2. Urinals. The effective flush volume of wall- mounted urinals shall not exceed 0.125 gallons per flush. The
effective flush volume of all other urinals shall not exceed 0.5 gallons per flush.
3. Showerheads. Single showerhead. Showerheads shall have a maximum flow rate of not more than 1.8 gallons
per minute at 80 psi. Showerheads shall be certified to the performance criteria of the U.S. EPA Water Sense
Specification for Showerheads.
a. Multiple showerheads serving one shower. When a shower is served by more than one showerhead, the
combined flow rate of all shower- heads and/or other shower outlets controlled by a sin- gle valve shall
not exceed 2.0 gallons per minute at 80 psi, or the shower shall be designed to allow only one shower
outlet to be in operation at a time.
b. Note: A hand-held shower shall be considered a showerhead.
4. Residential lavatory faucets. The maxi- mum flow rate of residential lavatory faucets shall not exceed 1.2
gallons per minute at 60 psi. The minimum flow rate of residential lavatory faucets shall not be less than 0.8
gallons per minute at 20 psi.
5. Metering faucets. Metering faucets when installed in residential buildings shall not deliver more than 0.25
gallons per cycle.
6. Kitchen faucets. The maximum flow rate of kitchen faucets shall not exceed 1.8 gallons per minute at 60 psi.
Kitchen faucets may temporarily increase the flow above the maximum rate, but not to exceed 2.2 gallons per
minute at 60 psi, and must default to a maximum flow rate of 1.8 gallons per minute at 60 psi.
7. Note: Where complying faucets are unavailable, aerators or other means may be used to achieve reduction.
(CG02) Rodent proofing.
1. Annular spaces around pipes, electric cables, conduits or other openings in sole/bottom plates at exterior
walls shall be protected against the passage of rodents by closing such openings with cement mortar,
concrete masonry or a similar method acceptable to the enforcing agency.
(CG03) Recycling and waste reduction requirements:
1. Construction waste management. Recycle and/or salvage for reuse a minimum of 65 percent of the
nonhazardous construction and demolition waste in accordance with the following CAL GREEB requirements or
meet a more stringent local construction and demolition waste management ordinance. Exceptions:
a. Excavated soil and land-clearing debris.
b. Alternate waste reduction methods developed by working with local agencies if diversion or recycle
facilities capable of compliance with this item do not exist or are not located reasonably close to the
jobsite.
c. The enforcing agency may make exceptions to the requirements of this section when isolated jobsites are
located in areas beyond the haul boundaries of the diversion facility.
2. Construction waste management plan. Submit a construction waste management plan in conformance with the
following Items a thru e. The construction waste management plan shall be updated as necessary and shall be
available during construction for examination by the enforcing agency.
a. Identify the construction and demolition waste materials to be diverted from disposal by recycling, reuse
on the project or salvage for future use or sale.
b. Specify if construction and demolition waste materials will be sorted on-site (source-separated) or bulk
mixed (single stream).
c. Identify diversion facilities where the construction and demolition waste material will be taken.
d. Identify construction methods employed to reduce the amount of construction and demolition waste
generated.
e. Specify that the amount of construction and demolition waste materials diverted shall be calculated by
weight or volume, but not by both.
1. Waste management company. Utilize a waste management company, approved by the enforcing agency, which
can provide verifiable documentation that the percentage of construction and demolition waste material diverted
from the landfill complies with Section 4.408.1.
1. The owner or contractor may make the determination if the construction and demolition waste materials
will be diverted by a waste management company.
2. Waste stream reduction alternative [LR]. Projects that generate a total combined weight of construction and
demolition waste disposed of in landfills, which do not exceed 3.4 pounds per square foot of the building area
shall meet the minimum 65 percent construction waste reduction requirement in Section 4.408.1.
3. Waste stream reduction alternative. Projects that generate a total combined weight of construction and
demolition waste disposed of in landfills, which do not exceed 2 pounds per square foot of the building area,
shall meet the minimum 65-percent construction waste reduction requirement in Section 4.408.1.
4. Documentation. Documentation shall be provided to the enforcing agency which demonstrates compliance with
CAL GREEN Section 4.408.2, Items 1 through 5, Section 4.408.3 or Sec- tion 4.408.4.
a. Sample forms found in “A Guide to the California Green Building Standards Code (Residential)” located
at www.hcd.ca.gov/CALGreen.html may be used to assist in documenting compliance with this section.
b. Mixed construction and demolition debris (C&D) processors can be located at the California Department
of Resources Recycling and Recovery (CalRe- cycle).
( CG04) Operation and maintenance manual:
1. At the time of final inspection, a manual, compact disc, web-based reference or other media acceptable to the
enforcing agency which includes all of the following shall be placed in the building:
a. Directions to the owner or occupant that the manual shall remain with the building throughout the life
cycle of the structure.
b. Operation and maintenance instructions for the fol- lowing:
c. Equipment and appliances, including water-saving devices and systems, HVAC systems, photovoltaic
systems, electric vehicle chargers, water-heating systems and other major appliances and equipment.
d. Roof and yard drainage, including gutters and down- spouts.
e. Space conditioning systems, including condensers and air filters.
f. Landscape irrigation systems.
g. Water reuse systems.
h. Information from local utility, water and waste recovery providers on methods to further reduce resource
consumption, including recycle programs and locations.
i. Public transportation and/or carpool options available in the area.
j. Educational material on the positive impacts of an interior relative humidity between 30–60 percent and
what methods an occupant may use to maintain the relative humidity level in that range.
k. Information about water-conserving landscape and irrigation design and controllers which conserve
water.
l. Instructions for maintaining gutters and downspouts and the importance of diverting water at least 5 feet
away from the foundation.
m. Information on required routine maintenance mea- sures, including, but not limited to, caulking, painting,
grading around the building, etc.
n. Information about state solar energy and incentive programs available.
o. A copy of all special inspection verifications required by the enforcing agency or this code.
(CG05) Pollutant Control:
1. Pollutant Control: Covering of duct openings and protection of mechanical equipment during
construction. At the time of rough installation, during storage on the construction site and until final startup of
the heating, cooling and ventilating equipment, all duct and other related air distribution component openings
shall be covered with tape, plastic, sheet metal or other methods acceptable to the enforcing agency to reduce the
amount of water, dust and debris, which may enter the system.
2. Finish material pollutant control. Finish materials shall comply with this section.
a. Adhesives, sealants and caulks. Adhesives, sealants and caulks used on the project shall meet the
requirements of the following standards unless more stringent local or regional air pollution or air quality
management district rules apply:
i. Adhesives, adhesive bonding primers, adhesive primers, sealants, sealant primers, and caulks
shall comply with local or regional air pollution control or air quality management district rules
where applicable or SCAQMD Rule 1168 VOC limits, as shown in Table 4.504.1 or 4.504.2, as
applicable. Such products also shall comply with the Rule 1168 prohibition on the use of certain
toxic compounds (chloroform, ethylene dichloride, methylene chloride, perchloroethylene and
trichloroethylene), except for aerosol products, as specified in Subsection 2 below.
ii. 
Aerosol adhesives, and smaller unit sizes of adhesives, and sealant or caulking compounds
(in units of product, less packaging, which do not weigh more than 1 pound and do not consist
of more than 16 fluid ounces) shall comply with statewide VOC standards and other
requirements, including prohibitions on use of certain toxic compounds, of California Code of
Regulations, Title 17, commencing with Section 94507.
3. Paints and coatings. Architectural paints and coatings shall comply with VOC limits in Table 1 of the ARB
Architectural Suggested Control Measure, as shown in Table 4.504.3, unless more stringent local limits apply.
The VOC content limit for coatings that do not meet the definitions for the specialty coatings categories listed in
Table 4.504.3 shall be determined by classifying the coating as a Flat, Nonflat or Nonflat-high Gloss coating,
based on its gloss, as defined in subsections 4.21, 4.36, and 4.37 of the California Air Resources Board,
Suggested Con- trol Measure, and the corresponding Flat, Nonflat or Non- flat-high Gloss VOC limit in Table
4.504.3 shall apply.
a. Aerosol paints and coatings. Aerosol paints and coatings shall meet the Product-weighted MIR Limits
for ROC in Section 94522(a)(2) and other requirements, including prohibitions on use of certain toxic
compounds and ozone depleting substances, in Sections 94522(e)(1) and (f)(1) of California Code of
Regulations, Title 17, commencing with Section 94520; and in areas under the jurisdiction of the Bay
Area Air Quality Management Dis- trict additionally comply with the percent VOC by weight of product
limits of Regulation 8, Rule 49.
b. Verification. Verification of compliance with this section shall be provided at the request of the
enforcing agency. Documentation may include, but is not limited to, the following:
i. Manufacturer’s product specification.
ii. 
2. Field verification of on-site product containers.
4. Carpet systems. All carpet installed in the building interior shall meet the testing and product requirements of
one of the following:
a. Carpet and Rug Institute’s Green Label Plus Program.
b. California Department of Public Health, “Standard Method for the Testing and Evaluation of Volatile
Organic Chemical Emissions from Indoor Sources Using Environmental Chambers,”
c. NSF/ANSI 140 at the Gold level.
d. Scientific Certifications Systems Indoor AdvantageTM Gold.
e. Carpet cushion. All carpet cushion installed in the building interior shall meet the requirements of the
Carpet and Rug Institute’s Green Label program.
f. Carpet adhesive. All carpet adhesive shall meet the requirements of Table 4.504.1.
5. HI Resilient flooring systems. Where resilient flooring is installed, at least 80 percent of floor area receiving
resilient flooring shall comply with one or more of the following:
a. Products compliant with the California Department of Public Health, “Standard Method for the Testing
and Evaluation of Volatile Organic Chemical Emissions from Indoor Sources Using Environmental
Chambers,”
b. Products certified under UL GREENGUARD Gold (formerly the Greenguard Children & Schools pro-
gram).
c. Certification under the Resilient Floor Covering Institute (RF
d. FloorScore program.
i. Meet the California Department of Public Health, “Standard Method for the Testing and
Evaluation of V olatile Organic Chemical Emissions from Indoor Sources Using Environmental
Chambers,”
5. HI Resilient flooring systems. Where resilient flooring is installed, at least 80 percent of floor area
receiving resilient flooring shall comply with one or more of the following:
a. Products compliant with the California Department of Public Health, “Standard Method for
the Testing and Evaluation of Volatile Organic Chemical Emissions from Indoor Sources
Using Environmental Chambers,”
b. Products certified under UL GREENGUARD Gold (formerly the Greenguard Children &
Schools pro- gram).
c. Certification under the Resilient Floor Covering Institute (RF
d. FloorScore program.
i. Meet the California Department of Public Health, “Standard Method for the Testing
and Evaluation of V olatile Organic Chemical Emissions from Indoor Sources Using
Environmental Chambers,”
6. 
Hi Composite wood products. Hardwood plywood, particleboard and
medium density fiberboard composite wood products used on the interior or exterior
of the building shall meet the requirements for formaldehyde as specified in ARB’s
Air Toxics Control Measure for Composite Wood (17 CCR 93120 et seq.), by or
before the dates specified in those sections, as shown in Table 4.504.5.
a. Documentation. Verification of compliance with this section shall be provided as requested
by the enforcing agency. Documentation shall include at least one of the following:
i. Product certifications and specifications.
ii. 
Chain of custody certifications.
iii. 
Product labeled and invoiced as meeting the Com- posite Wood Products
regulation (see CCR, Title 17, Section 93120, et seq.).
iv. 
Exterior grade products marked as meeting the PS-1 or PS-2 standards of the
Engineered Wood Associa- tion, the Australian AS/NZS 2269, European 636 3S, and
Canadian CSA O121, CSA O151, CSA O153 and CSA O325 standards.
(CG06) Moisture content of building materials (Testing Required).
1. Building materials with visible signs of water damage shall not be installed. Wall and floor framing
shall not be enclosed when the framing members exceed 19-percent moisture content. Moisture
content shall be verified in compliance with the following:
2. Moisture content shall be determined with either a probe-type or contact-type moisture meter.
Equivalent moisture verification methods may be approved by the enforcing agency and shall satisfy
requirements found in Section 101.8 of this code. Exception :Use of alternate design temperatures
neces- sary to ensure the systems function are acceptable.
a. Moisture readings shall be taken at a point 2 feet (610 mm) to 4 feet (1219 mm) from the
grade stamped end of each piece to be verified.
b. At least three random moisture readings shall be per- formed on wall and floor framing with
documentation acceptable to the enforcing agency provided at the time of approval to enclose
the wall and floor framing.
3. Insulation products which are visibly wet or have a high moisture content shall be replaced or
allowed to dry prior to enclosure in wall or floor cavities. Wet-applied insulation products shall
follow the manufacturers’ drying recommendations prior to enclosure.
(CG07) Bathroom exhaust fans. Each bathroom shall be mechanically ventilated and shall comply with the
following:
1. Fans shall be ENERGY STAR compliant and be ducted to terminate outside the building.
2. Unless functioning as a component of a whole house ventilation system, fans must be controlled by a
humidity control.
1. Humidity controls shall be capable of adjustment between a relative humidity range between
50% min. to a 80% max. A humidity control may utilize manual or automatic means of
adjustment.
2. A humidity control may be a separate component to the exhaust fan and is not required to be
integral (i.e., built-in).
3. For the purposes of this section, a bathroom is a room that contains a bathtub, shower, or tub/
shower combination.
(CG08) Heating and air-conditioning system design. Heat- ing and air-conditioning systems shall be
sized, designed and have their equipment selected using the following methods:
1. The heat loss and heat gain is established according to ANSI/ACCA 2 Manual J—Residential Load
Calculation), ASHRAE handbooks or other equivalent design software or methods.
2. Duct systems are sized according to ANSI/ACCA 1 Manual D— (Residential Duct Systems),
ASHRAE handbooks or other equivalent design soft- ware or methods.
3. Select heating and cooling equipment according to ANSI/ACCA 3 Manual S—(Residential Equip-
Exception: Use of alternate design temperatures necessary to ensure the systems function are acceptable.
(CG09) Fireplaces:
1. Fireplaces: Any installed gas fireplace shall be a direct- vent sealed-combustion type. Any installed
woodstove or pellet stove shall comply with U.S. EPA New Source Performance Standards (NSPS)
emission limits as applicable, and shall have a permanent label indicating they are certified to meet
the emission limits.  Woodstoves, pellet stoves and fireplaces shall also comply with applicable local
ordinances.
(CG10) Outdoor potable water use in landscape areas.
1. Residential developments with an aggregate landscape area equal to or greater than 500 square feet
shall comply with one of the following options:
a. A local water efficient landscape ordinance or the cur- rent California Department of Water
Resources’ Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO), whichever is more
stringent; or
b. Projects with aggregate landscape areas less than 2,500 square feet may comply with the
MWELO’s Appendix D Prescriptive Compliance Option.
c. The Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO) and supporting documents are
available at: http://www.water.ca.gov/wateruseefficiency/ land- scapeordinance/ A water
budget calculator is available at: http:// www.water.ca.gov/wateruseefficiency/landscapeor-
dinance/
(CG11) EH Electric Vehicle Charging stations @ New houses with attached private garages.
1. For each dwelling unit, install a listed raceway to accommodate a dedicated 208/240-volt branch
circuit. The raceway shall not be less than trade size 1 (nominal 1-inch inside diameter). The raceway
shall originate at the main service or subpanel and shall terminate into a listed cabinet, box or other
enclosure in close proximity to the proposed location of an EV char- ger. Raceways are required to be
continuous at enclosed, inaccessible or concealed areas and spaces. The service panel and/or
subpanel shall provide capacity to install a 40-ampere minimum dedicated branch circuit and
space(s) reserved to permit installation of a branch circuit overcur- rent protective device.
2. Identification. The service panel or sub- panel circuit directory shall identify the overcurrent
protective device space(s) reserved for future EV charging as “EV CAPABLE”. The raceway
termination location shall be permanently and visibly marked as “EV CAPABLE”.
3. Single EV space required. Install a listed raceway capable of accommodating a 208/240-volt
dedicated branch circuit. The raceway shall not be less than trade size 1 (nominal 1-inch inside
diameter). The raceway shall originate at the main service or subpanel and shall terminate into a
listed cabinet, box or enclo- sure in close proximity to the proposed location of the EV spaces.
Construction documents shall identify the raceway termination point. The service panel and/or
subpanel shall provide capacity to install a 40-ampere minimum dedicated branch circuit and
space(s) reserved to permit installation of a branch circuit over- current protective device.
4. Identification. The service panel or sub- panel circuit directory shall identify the overcurrent
protective device space(s) reserved for future EV charging purposes as “EV CAPABLE” in
accordance with the California Electrical Code.
(CG12) Concrete Slab Capillary Break
1. Concrete Slab Capillary Break: A 4” thick base of 1/2” or larger clean aggregate shall be provided
with a vapor retarder in direct contact with concrete and a concrete mix design, which will address
bleed- ing, shrinkage, and curling, shall be used. For addi- tional information, see American Concrete
Institute,  ACI 302.2R-06
CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
A. Luminaire Efficacy: All installed luminaires shall be high efficacy.  Exceptions:
Integrated device lighting integral to exhaust fans, kitchen range hoods, vanity mirrors
and garage door openers. Navigation lighting such as night lights, step lights and path
lights less than 5 watts. Cabinet lighting internal to drawers, cabinetry, and linen closets
w/ an efficiency of 45 lumens per watt or greater
B. Screw-based Luminaries: Screw based luminaries shall contain lamps that comply
with Reference Joint Appendix JA8.
C. Recessed Down light Luminaires in Ceilings. Luminaires recessed into ceilings shall
meet all of the following requirements:
a. Shall not contain screw base sockets; and
b. Have a label that certifies the luminaire is airtight with air leakage less than 2.0 CFM at
75 Pascals when tested in accordance with ASTM E283. An exhaust fan housing shall
not be required to be certified airtight; and
c. Be sealed with a gasket or caulk between the luminaire housing and ceiling, and shall
have all air leak paths between conditioned and unconditioned spaces sealed with a
gasket or caulk or be installed per the MFG’s instructions to maintain air tight ness between
the luminary and the ceiling ; and
d. Meet the clarance and installation requirements of the Cal. Elect Code sec 410.116 for
recessed fixtures.
i. 
Exception: Recessed luminaries marked for use in fire-rated installations
extruded into ceiling space and recessed luminaries installed in non insulated
ceilings.
D. Light Sources in Enclosed Or Recessed Luminaries: Lamps and other separable
light sources that are not compliant with the JA8 elevated temp. requirements including
marking requirements, shall not be installed in enclosed or recessed luminaries.
E. Blank Electrical Boxes. The number of electrical boxes that are more than 5 feet
above the finished floor and do not contain a luminaire or other device shall be no greater
than the number of bedrooms. These electrical boxes must be served by a dimmer,
vacancy sensor control, low voltage wiring, or fan speed control.
F. Interior Lighting Controls.
a. All forward phase cut dimmers used with LED light sources shall comply with NEMA
SSL 7A.
b. Exhaust fans shall be switched separately from lighting systems. EXCEPTION:
Lighting integral to an exhaust fan may be on the same switch as the fan provided the
lighting can be switched OFF in accordance with the applicable provisions in Section
150.0(k)2 while allowing the fan to continue to operate for an extended period of time.
c. Luminaires shall be switched with readily accessible controls that permit the luminaires
to be manually switched ON and OFF. Exception, ceiling fans may provide control of
integrated VIA a remote.
d. Lighting controls and equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
e. No controls shall bypass a dimmer, occupant sensor, or vacancy sensor function where
that dimmer or vacancy sensor has been installed to comply with Section 150.0(k).
f. Lighting controls shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 110.9.
g. An Energy Management Control System (EMCS) or a multiscene programmable
control may be used to comply with dimming, occupancy, and lighting control
requirements in Section 150.0(k)2 if it provides the functionality of specified controls in
accordance with Section 110.9, and the physical controls specified in section 150.0(k)2A
G. Automatic Off Controls W/ An Occupancy  Or Vacancy Sensor: In Bathrooms,
garages, laundry rooms, utility rooms and walk in closets At least one luminaire in each
of these spaces shall be controlled by an occupant or vacancy sensor providing automatic-
off functionality. For lighting integral to drawers and cabinetry w/ opaque fronts or doors,
Controls that turn the light off when the door or drawer is closed shall be provided,
H. Dimming Controls: Lighting in habitable spaces including but not limited to living
rooms, dining rooms, kitchens, and bedrooms, shall have redily accessible wall-mounted
dimming controls that allow the lighting to be manually adjusted up and down. Forward
phase cut dimmers controlled LED light sources in these spaces shall comply w/
NEMASSL7A. Exception #1 ceiling fans may provide control of integrated lighting via a
remote control. Exception #2 Luminaries connected to a circuit w/ controlled lighting
power less than 20 watts or controlled by an occupancy or vacancy sensor providing
automatic-off functionality. Exception #3 to Sec 150.0(k)2F: Navigation lighting such as
night lights, step lights, and path lights less than 5 watts, and lighting internal to drawer
and cabinetry with opaque fronts or doors or with automatic -off controls.
I. Independent Controls: Integrated lighting of exhaust fans shall be controlled
independently from the fans. The following shall be controlled separately from ceiling-
installed lighting such that one can be turned on with out turning on the other:
undercabinet lighting, undershelf lighting, interior lighting of display cabinets, switched
outlets.
J. Residential Outdoor Lighting including private patios, entrances, balconies, parking
lots, carports, and porches. In addition to being high efficiency, luminaires providing
residential outdoor lighting shall meet the following requirements, as applicable:
a. Outdoor lighting permanently mounted to a residential building, or to other buildings
on the same lot, shall meet the requirement in item b and the requirements in either item
c or item d
b. Controlled by a manual ON and OFF switch that permits the automatic actions of Items
c or d below; and
c. Controlled by photocell and either a motion sensor or an automatic time switch control.
Or
d. Controlled by an Astronomical time clock control. Controls that override to ON shall
not be allowed unless the override automatically returns to automatic control to its
normal operation within 6 hours. An energy management control system that provides
the specific lighting control functionality and complies with all requirements applicable
to the specified controls may be used to meet these requirements.
K. Internally illuminated address signs. Internally illuminated address signs shall:
Comply with Section 140.8; or  Shall consume no more than 5 watts of power.
L. The following Light sources other than those installed in ceiling recessed down
light luminaires are classified as high efficacy and are not required to comply w/
reference joint appendix JA8
a. LED light sources installed outdoors
b. Inseparable SSL luminaires containing colored light sources that are installed to
provide decorative lighting.
c. Pin-based linear or compact fluorescent light sources using electronic ballasts.
d. High Intensity Discharge (HID) light sources including pulse start metal halide and
high pressure sodium light sources
e. Luminaires with hardwired high frequency generator and induction lamp
f. Ceiling fan Light Kits subject to federal appliance regulations
CAL GREEN BLDG STANDARDS REQUIREMENTS:
2
2
PLAN CHECK
 REVISIONS 2-11-25
